

1	1	Germany as the first in Europe will establish "undetermined sex" when registering children
1	2	Germany will become the first country in Europe where it will be allowed to indicate "undetermined" instead of male or female sex when registering children born as hermaphrodites.
1	3	The child's parents will have the right to temporarily leave the "sex" box unfilled on the birth certificate.
1	4	Instead of "F" (female sex) or "M" (male sex) parents can temporarily write in "X" (undetermined).
1	5	This decision is aimed at not pushing parents toward haste with an operation to "clarify" the sex.
1	6	According to statistics, one out of 2 thousand newborns in the world is born a hermaphrodite.


2	1	Anger over Bali bomb plotter's sentence
2	2	Survivors and relatives of the 202 people killed in the 2002 Bali bombing have reacted with anger over the sentence given to the last of the plotters to face justice, saying Umar Patek should face a firing squad.
2	3	Patek, who spent almost 10 years on the run as one of South-East Asia's most wanted, was yesterday sentenced to 20 years in jail for his role in building the explosive devices used in the bombing.
2	4	He could be released within 15 years if granted parole.
2	5	The 45-year-old was found guilty of mass murder for the attack on two nightclubs in the popular tourist area of Kuta which left 202 people dead, including 88 Australians, and injured scores more.
2	6	He was also found guilty of a number of other terrorism-related charges, including a wave of bombings of churches across Indonesia on Christmas Eve in 2000.
2	7	Prosecutors had demanded a life sentence, although they could have pushed that the man dubbed the "Demolition Man" for his reputation as a master bomb-maker be sentenced to death.
2	8	The decision has reignited painful memories for Perth mother June Corteen, who lost her 39-year-old twin daughters Jane and Jenny in the destruction unleashed by Patek and his co-conspirators almost a decade ago.
2	9	Fighting back tears, she said Patek should have been sentenced to death.
2	10	I really feel that he should follow in the footsteps of the other guys.
2	11	"He should be put in front of the firing squad," Ms Corteen told AAP.
2	12	I have to live every day without seeing more grandchildren, and my daughters.
2	13	The Sari Club was levelled when a massive bomb loaded into a van parked outside was detonated just after 11pm on October 12, 2002.
2	14	Peter Hughes was in Paddy's Bar where a suicide bomber detonated a backpack loaded with explosives just 20 seconds earlier.
2	15	He lapsed into a month-long coma in the wake of the bombing, and "died" three times while on life support.
2	16	Mr Hughes said Patek should have shared the same fate as three other members of the Jemaah Islamiah terror cell responsible for the carnage - Amrozi, Mukhlas and Imam Samudra - who were executed four years ago.
2	17	Really, this guy should get the death penalty before anybody.
2	18	To keep him alive, well, there's no reason to keep him alive.
2	19	To get 20 years, after killing 202 people and injuring many hundreds, it's not much.
2	20	Patek is the last of the Bali bombers to face justice.
2	21	He had avoided capture for almost a decade but was eventually apprehended in January 2011 in the Pakistani town of Abbottabad, where US forces killed former al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden less than four months later.
2	22	During the trial, an FBI agent testified that intelligence reports had revealed Patek was in Pakistan to meet with bin Laden in an effort to re-establish links between South-East Asian terrorist groups and al-Qaeda.
2	23	"He didn't give himself up," Ms Corteen said.
2	24	Until just recently, he really didn't feel sorry for how much grief he caused other people.
2	25	The verdict comes ahead of the 10th anniversary of the attack later this year, which will be marked by ceremonies in Bali and Australia.
2	26	"There will be a lot of tears this year," Ms Corteen said.
2	27	Patek may yet appeal his sentence.


3	1	Medvedev expects that the SSJ-100 airplane will be supplied to Europe
3	2	Russia expects that after strengthening on the markets of Latin America and Asia, Superjet 100 airplanes will also be supplied to Europe.
3	3	"We expect that altogether we will receive such contracts for more than 170 airplanes of similar type," Interfax quotes the words of Russian prime minister Dmitry Medvedev spoken by him at a press conference with the prime minister of France Jean-Marc Ayrault.
3	4	The head of the Russian government noted that serious cooperation has been set up with French colleagues since this is a joint project.
3	5	Today we discussed certain financial issues that were related to insurance, but we hope that after this airplane strengthens on the markets of Latin America and the Asian-Pacific region, it will also be supplied to our partners in Europe.
3	6	"I hope that some day it will be supplied to France as well," emphasized the Russian prime minister.
3	7	SSJ-100 is an airplane built by the company "Sukhoi Civil Aircraft" in partnership with Alenia Aermacchi.
3	8	The jetliner was developed based on modern technologies and offers high standards of quality and comfort in the segment for 100 passenger seats.


4	1	The goalkeeper of "Chicago" Nikolai Khabibulin emphasized: he understands that he must play better.
4	2	According to the 40-year-old Russian, he will continue to work hard at practices.
4	3	At the last two meetings of the "Hawks" Khabibulin initially let through six pucks from "Tampa Bay", and then four from "Ottawa", though in the second game he was replaced after the fourth missed puck.
4	4	We have to play good, and in the last two games I was not able to do that, - CSN Chicago quotes Khabibulin.
4	5	- I need to find confidence at practices, probably it's worth approaching them like games, and try to achieve the best result.
4	6	You have to study your past games and work on those flaws that were present.
4	7	There are several small components that I need to improve, but at practices I feel pretty good.
4	8	But for some reason after several goals everything turns into a kind of snowball.
4	9	Possibly I need to relax a little.
4	10	Goalkeepers - I don't think that I am the only one - always strive to play a perfect game.
4	11	If I miss four, five, six, I am not delighted.
4	12	It does not matter what happens in front of my goalposts.
4	13	I still work on myself in order to not miss so many pucks.
4	14	It is great that my teammates are supporting, but essentially everything is simple: I have to play better.
4	15	Two games - it is not the entire season, but I wanted to play them much better.
4	16	But what happened did happen.
4	17	I have to put that aside.
4	18	I will simply try to play the next match better.


5	1	Power engineers of Dnepropetrovschina have begun a unique program to save... stork nests
5	2	In old times, in order to attract storks to the yard, villagers installed a cart wheel on a high post and a heavy nest held up well on it.
5	3	Such special supports have long since not been set up, therefore storks have taken fancy to the poles of electric power transmission lines - interwoven branches are supported by wires, thanks to which a stork home sits securely.
5	4	Grandma Anya, near the home of which a stork family has been living for already about twenty years in the village of Ivanovka in the Petrikovsky district, began to notice that the nest sags despite all the efforts of its inhabitants.
5	5	The birds place new branches on top, but the lower layer has already sunk between the wires, will collapse any minute.
5	6	Of course, it's a pity for the family of storks that each year have nested near the inn, they hatched and nursed three-four chicks over the summer, but I'd also rather not be without light.
5	7	As soon as the birds flew away to warm territories, Grandma Anya called the Tsarichansky regional power network to which the pole belongs.
5	8	And did not even expect that there they would respond so fast.
5	9	When our specialists arrived in Ivanovka, they were surprised that the nest still hangs on at all, - recounted the technical director of DFPC "Dneprooblenergo" Sergei Berezovsky.
5	10	Corrosion had begun on the wires that ended up essentially inside the nest weighing 150-200 kilograms.
5	11	At any moment the birds could have died from electric discharge.
5	12	And indeed the local residents risked being left without light due to the damage of the wires.
5	13	For that reason the linemen began an operation to save the nest, and this is already not the first time in our practical experience.
5	14	We were helped by scientist-ornithologists from Dnepropetrovsk National University who developed a scheme for moving the nest.
5	15	They even conducted training for employees of regional networks.
5	16	The well-known Dnepropetrovsk ornithologist Alexander Ponomarenko advised the power specialists at all stages of nest reconstruction.
5	17	For a start, they figured that in the region more than 50 stork "apartments" are in an unsafe condition.
5	18	For their reconstruction, special metal platforms resembling a funnel were welded.
5	19	They braided the frame with willow branches, and then moved the old nest to it.
5	20	According to experts, it is sufficient to lay the old branches as a base so that the birds recognize the nest and return to it.
5	21	Later the storks will finish constructing their home themselves.
5	22	A month ago in the village of Peschanka in the Novomoskovsky district the first nest was reconstructed.
5	23	Next to the power support they placed a new reinforced concrete post and arranged on it a platform with the old, already lived-in nest.
5	24	The entire operation cost the power engineers nine thousand hryvnia.
5	25	And the other day the same kind of housewarming took place in the village of Ivanovka in the Petrikovsky district at the inn of Grandma Anya.
5	26	Here they secured the platform in its previous place, only they slightly raised it above the wires.
5	27	Ornithologists are confident that the cautious, conservative birds will not even notice in the spring that their "apartment" underwent capital repairs.
5	28	Before the end of the year the same reconstruction awaits another four nests in the Pokrovsky and Tsarichansky districts of Dnepropetrovschina.
5	29	By the way, while some are saving rare birds, others are mercilessly killing them.
5	30	The other day sad news spread over the region - in the village of Ust-Kamenka in the Apostolovsky district, on the opening day of pheasant hunting, poachers just for the fun of it gunned down a family of swans dwelling at a local pond.
5	31	The noble birds did not fear people at all - local residents fed them and did not offend.
5	32	When the villagers, hearing gunshots, ran up to the pond, four beautiful swans already laid dead on the water.
5	33	Presently employees of the Apostolovsky district police department are ascertaining who shot the birds listed in the Red Data Book.


6	1	The American Boeing stuck in Chita is preparing for departure
6	2	The American airplane that conducted observation flights over Russian territory within the framework of the Treaty on Open Skies and made an unscheduled landing on Wednesday in Chita will leave the city's air harbor on Friday, November 1 at 8:30 Moscow time.
6	3	Management of the airport permitted departure of the craft after receiving money for fuel.
6	4	As reported at the airport, the airplane will depart to Ulan-Ude.
6	5	According to other data, it will head to the U.S.
6	6	As was reported, the airplane flying to Ulan-Ude landed in Zabaykalsky Krai due to fog.
6	7	They had not released it from the Chita airport due to unpaid accounts.
6	8	Aboard the plane are 30 people, including the crew, they spent two nights on the territory of the airport, reports ITAR-TASS.
6	9	As RF Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported, according to the terms of the Treaty on Open Skies, people aboard aircraft shall not go beyond the confines of the Chita airport, they may pass through border control only in two airports in Russia - in Kubinka and in Ulan-Ude.
6	10	The Treaty on Open Skies was signed in 1992, 34 nations participate in it.
6	11	Observation flights take place over territories of Russia, the U.S., Canada, countries of Europe.
6	12	The main objectives of the Treaty - development of transparency, assistance to observation of fulfillment of agreements in the sphere of arms control, expansion of capabilities to prevent crises and resolution of crisis situations within the framework of OSCE and other international organizations.


7	1	Vitaliy Mutko: Water cannons?
7	2	It seems to me that we are back about 15 years in the past.
7	3	Minister of sports Vitaliy Mutko voiced his opinion on the disturbances in the stands during the Russian Cup match "Shinnik" - "Spartak".
7	4	I advocate that clubs, leagues, RFU as organizers of sporting events be responsible for all that.
7	5	But as we can see, they have taken a different position.
7	6	They expect that someone from the outside will come and establish order.
7	7	This is a very nice position, but not entirely correct.
7	8	It is necessary to organize fans, clubs must invite their stewards and not let things slide.
7	9	We just developed a special government order concerning the rules for behavior at stadiums.
7	10	After it is adopted, we will closely examine this problem.
7	11	But I will also certainly invite all organizers of the football process.
7	12	I've read the interview with Leonid Fedun.
7	13	Government, he says, give us a law pronto.
7	14	It feels as if fans of "Bavaria" came to Yaroslavl and caused all this.
7	15	And we are outside observers.
7	16	But it really is terrible to see how they shower the stands from a water cannon.
7	17	And this happens in a country that is preparing for the world championships.
7	18	"I have the feeling that we have went back 10-15 years," said Mutko.


8	1	Cocaine-addict lawyer who tipped off Mr Big about police investigation is jailed
8	2	Basharat Ditta, 42, would feed information to crime lord Neil Scarbrough
8	3	The solicitor feared his secret drug addiction would be exposed
8	4	Was given a three-year prison sentence at Liverpool Crown Court
8	5	A top defence lawyer who told a drugs Mr Big about a major police investigation, because he feared his secret drug addiction would be exposed, has been jailed for three years.
8	6	Basharat Ditta, 42, would feed sensitive intelligence to crime lord Neil Scarbrough about inquiries into his drug trafficking activities after he became compromised by his cocaine habit.
8	7	The solicitor, who was nicknamed "Bash" and hailed by criminals as a "top brief," was arrested at his home in 2011 following a police surveillance operation into Scarborough, who he had represented in a previous narcotics trial.
8	8	Officers spotted Sarborough, 32, dropping off three bags of cocaine at the lawyer's home in Blackburn, Lancashire, while he was out at a Law Society dinner with colleagues.
8	9	Inquiries revealed Ditta was a "regular user" of the Class A drug after tests found traces of cocaine in his hair, on his wallet and on his credit cards.
8	10	Over an eight month period between January and August 2011 he sought to illicitly obtain information on the arrests of two men on behalf of Scarborough as well as one of his associates.
8	11	All four suspects were being watched by police at the time as part of a major investigation into a heroin and cocaine racket operating across Lancashire, Cumbria, Merseyside, Berkshire and West Yorkshire.
8	12	They and 32 other men were later jailed after police seized heroin and cocaine worth £1.5million along with more than £200,000 in cash during a series of raids.
8	13	Ditta, 42, fed information to criminals because of fears his cocaine addiction would be exposed
8	14	Today at Liverpool Crown Court Ditta, who works at law firm Forbes Solicitors, based in Blackburn, was facing disgrace after being found guilty of two counts of perverting the course of justice following a three week trial at Liverpool Crown Court.
8	15	He admitted cocaine possession at an earlier hearing.
8	16	The lawyer's downfall came after police investigating Scarborough discovered he had been in regular phone contact with Ditta in February 2011.
8	17	Two detectives trailed the suspect and spotted him arriving at Ditta's house in and was seen to place the drugs which had a purity of 60 per cent under the lawyer's bins in a black golf glove.
8	18	Soon after the drop off, Scarborough was in regular phone contact with Ditta who had been out at the dinner at the Blackburn Rovers football stadium, Ewood Park.
8	19	The lawyer returned home to discover the drugs and there were nine communications between them.
8	20	The court heard Ditta was a "regular user" of cocaine after tests found traces of the Class A drug in his hair, wallet and on his credit cards
8	21	Ditta was arrested later but denied using cocaine and and said he had been speaking to the suspected dealer because he was his client and argued their discussions were subject to "legal privilege."
8	22	During his arrest Ditta picked up his wallet and tried to remove several credit cards but they were all seized and a hair sample was taken fom him.
8	23	In a police interview he said he ran an office at his home address as well as work place and clients would call at his house on legal business.
8	24	But the court heard he would call major players in the drugs supply chain, some of whom he had previously represented, after key arrests to tell them what detectives knew about them.
8	25	Prosecuting, Anne Whyte said: "If anyone should know not to the break the law, it is a criminal solicitor."
8	26	Mr Ditta is accused of abusing his position as a criminal solicitor, having become too involved with specific clients.
8	27	The relationship we are talking about is not simply a drug dealer, but a drug dealer providing his own lawyer with drugs.
8	28	Some of his communications will undoubtedly have been legitimate ones because he was their lawyer.
8	29	But this went way beyond the ordinary confines of a lawyer-client relationship.
8	30	He thwarted the police's investigation as much as possible to enable them to continue in their criminal activities.
8	31	Mr Ditta was not honouring his profession, but dishonouring it.
8	32	He got too close to certain clients, in particular Scarborough, and he allowed his independence to be compromised.
8	33	Ditta denied wrongdoing and claimed: "If I was a corrupt lawyer, which I am not, and I wanted to feed information to Mr Scarborough, I would not wait 15 hours, I would do it immediately."
8	34	But after the hearing Supt Lee Halstead from Lancashire Police said: "Mr Ditta turned from criminal solicitor to a criminal himself the moment he started obtaining drugs from organised criminals."
8	35	His addiction to cocaine left him hopelessly compromised and vulnerable to the motives of leading members of organised crime groups who tasked him to obtain valuable information regarding police investigations.
8	36	Solicitors should uphold the highest standards of integrity and should instil trust and confidence in the public.
8	37	Mr Ditta has betrayed this trust and attempted to hide behind the veneer of his profession.
8	38	Lancashire's Serious and Organised Crime Unit led the investigation into Mr Ditta which has also seen him convicted of three counts of possession of cocaine and now perverting the course of justice, demonstrating our commitment to bringing criminals to justice.
8	39	Let this case serve as a warning to criminals that no one is beyond the reach of the law.
8	40	We will find you and put you before the courts.
8	41	Scarborough himself was jailed for 14 years after pleading guilty to conspiracy to supply heroin, cocaine and cannabis.
8	42	Thirty five other men involved in the racket were jailed for a total of 153 years for drugs offences.
8	43	On his website Ditta gave a question and answer session about himself in which he says his fantasy job would be a lawyer representing clients on Death Row in America, his ultimate dinner guest as being Mohammed Ali and inequality as his motivation for work.


9	1	Jet makers feud over seat width with big orders at stake
9	2	A row has flared up between leading plane makers over the width of tourist-class seats on long-distance flights, setting the tone for a bitter confrontation at this month's Dubai Airshow.
9	3	The dispute focuses on the width of seats provided on long-haul flights for economy passengers - not always the ones most courted by airlines, but whose allocated space holds the key to efficiency claims for the latest jets offered by Airbus SAS and Boeing Co.
9	4	Airbus this week called for an industry standard that would provide for a seat at least 18 inches (46 cm) wide in economy cabins, but its U.S. arch-rival Boeing says it should be for airlines to decide.
9	5	The dispute comes as plane makers vie to sell ever-larger versions of their twin-engined long-distance aircraft, with potentially record orders expected at the November 17-21 event.
9	6	How the back of the plane is laid out - particularly whether seating is 9 or 10 abreast - is central to the economic performance claims being made for new "mini-jumbo" jet designs.
9	7	Boeing says its revamped "777X" will hold 406 people based on economy seats more than 17 inches wide and set out 10 in each row.
9	8	Airbus says the competing version of its A350 will carry 350 people in 18-inch-wide economy seat laid out 9 abreast.
9	9	Plane giants often trade blows on technical matters through advertising in the trade press.
9	10	Now, Airbus is appealing directly to the public ahead of the Dubai Airshow, where the 777X is expected to dominate with more than 100 orders.
9	11	It recently previewed what may be the start of a new ad war by showing financiers a slide illustrating three people squashed together at a restaurant, titled "Would You Accept This?"
9	12	"Boeing is proposing long-distance flying in seats narrower than regional turbo-props," said Airbus sales chief John Leahy.
9	13	As diets change, people get bigger but plane seating has not radically changed.
9	14	Between the early 1970s, when the Boeing 747 jumbo defined modern long-haul travel, and the turn of the century, the weight of the average American 40- to 49-year-old male increased by 10 per cent, according to U.S. Health Department Data.
9	15	The waist of the average 21st-century American male is 39.7 inches, according to U.S. health statistics.
9	16	Airbus says its rival is sticking to a seat concept from the 1950s, when the average girth of the newly christened "jet set" was narrower.
9	17	Airbus says it has commissioned research suggesting an extra inch in seat width improves sleep quality by 53 per cent.
9	18	Boeing disputes Airbus's figures on seat measurements and says it is not up to manufacturers to step into decisions on how airlines balance fares and facilities.
9	19	It also says research shows cabin experience depends on more than the width of a seat.
9	20	"It really comes down to providing flexibility to airlines and allowing them to do the things that they believe they need to do to be successful," said Boeing cabins expert Kent Craver.
9	21	They don't want us to dictate to them what makes them profitable.
9	22	They know their business better than anyone else.
9	23	For flyers it is about more elbow room, but for suppliers it is increasingly an issue that could affect earnings.
9	24	Behind the dispute is a race for plane orders with at least $700-billion of estimated business at list prices in coming decades, enough to tip the scales of U.S. and European exports.
9	25	As Reuters first reported in July, seat layout is exactly what drives the battle between the latest jets.
9	26	Both Airbus and Boeing claim 20 per cent better efficiency per seat in their latest twin-engined long-haul designs than the market leader in that segment, the 365-seat Boeing 777-300ER.
9	27	Boeing's performance claims depend in part on comparing the 10-abreast 777X with an original 9-abreast 777 design.
9	28	The gain in unit costs is blunted compared with 10-abreast now in use.
9	29	"The reason Boeing are doing this is to cram more seats in to make their plane more competitive with our products," said Kevin Keniston, head of passenger comfort at Europe's Airbus.
9	30	On the other hand, analysts say full 10-seat-per-row cabins for existing 777s suggest many passengers are voting for the denser layout, which may go hand in hand with cheaper fares.
9	31	"Eighteen inches in seat width would be great for passengers, but the reality is that from a business point of the Airbus proposal is driven by the threat of the 777," said cabin interiors expert Mary Kirby, founder and editor of the Runway Girl Network.
9	32	Airbus and Boeing do not supply seats but offer a catalogue of suppliers for airlines to choose from.
9	33	Globe-trotting jet sellers even carry tape measures to check on competing layouts.
9	34	While boasting comfort, all builders also offer jets with high-density layouts for low-cost airlines and regional travel.
9	35	Airbus offers a 10-abreast A350 but says it has not yet sold it.
9	36	Until recently, Airbus was stressing the need for more cabin customization by offering wider aisle seats on some of its jets.
9	37	Without the support of the only other maker of large modern jets, experts say its call for a new industry standard is unlikely to fly, but could distract from a wave of 777X sales.


10	1	Oleynikov: a third of rural villages of the Moscow region are fully subsidized
10	2	The vice governor of the Moscow region Yuriy Oleynikov stated that almost a third of rural villages in the Moscow region are fully subsidized
10	3	In total 187 villages out of 288 receive subsidies from the regional budget.
10	4	In 2013 187 villages out of 288 receive subsidies from the regional budget.
10	5	The proportion of subsidies within the amount of budget revenues of 122 rural villages exceeds 50%, and 83 are one hundred percent subsidized.
10	6	Within the scope of fiscal capacity, around 25 billion rubles is directed from the regional budget," said Oleynikov.
10	7	The vice governor also noted that for only three municipal villages - Mytischi, Odintsovo and Pushkino - the amount of budget revenues amounts to over 1 billion rubles for 2013.
10	8	The revenues of rural villages of many regions are less than 3 million rubles, "this is not nearly enough".
10	9	Expenses on maintaining the local administrative apparatus in 88 villages of the Moscow region amount to more than 70%, "moreover a reduction in quality of services is observed", noted Oleynikov.
10	10	Previously he ordered the heads of municipal formations of the Moscow region before the end of November to think about which villages require integration, incorporation into municipal districts or a change in the administrative management system.
10	11	These proposals will be processed by the end of January.
10	12	Before that, the governor of the Moscow region announced that within the scope of administrative reform, in the Moscow region it is planned to reduce the number of subsidized rural villages.
10	13	Also in Mozhaysk, Kashirsk, Solnechnogorsk, Kolomensk districts, Lyubertsi and Kotelniki there is demand for consolidation of municipalities.
10	14	Discussion of this issue in the cities and districts of the region will begin in November.
10	15	Chairman of the Moscow Regional Duma Igor Bryntsalov also announced that in total they plan to consolidate around 30 rural villages and 12 districts of the Moscow region as part of the forthcoming administrative reform.
10	16	This is associated with the fact that of 178 rural villages in the Moscow region less than a third have an "acceptable" financial base, and 100 are subsidized.


11	1	Mozambique security concerns mount as powerful personalities clash
11	2	With a statue of Samora Machel, Mozambique's founding president, staring down on them, thousands of people gathered in central Maputo to chant peace slogans in a rare public demonstration.
11	3	"We want peace back; we want stability," said Vanessa de Sousa, chief executive of an investment company.
11	4	Fearful about the future of her country, she swapped her corporate attire for a T-shirt emblazoned with "we demand security" in Portuguese as she joined the crowds in the capital's Independence Square on Thursday.
11	5	For two weeks, there have been almost daily reports of clashes between government forces and Renamo, some of the worst skirmishes since a peace deal more than 20 years ago.
11	6	Renamo was once a notorious rebel movement, initially backed by white-ruled Rhodesia and then South Africa's apartheid government as part of efforts to destabilise the country's independent government.
11	7	After a 1992 peace deal, it became an opposition party.
11	8	Analysts believe the country is unlikely to slide back into full-blown conflict, but recent events have unnerved foreign investors and locals.
11	9	The stakes are high for the fast-growing economy as the discovery of huge offshore gas reserves and coal deposits in the northwest could bring in more than $50bn of investment over the next few next years from companies including Rio Tinto, Vale of Brazil, Eni of Italy and Anadarko of the US.
11	10	The ruling Frelimo party, the dominant political force since 1975, and Renamo blame each other for the tension.
11	11	Renamo says the government initiated the latest clashes by launching an attack on its members in Sofala province, traditionally a Renamo stronghold, on October 17.
11	12	Assaults on the former rebels then escalated as government forces attacked Renamo bases and attempted to kill Afonso Dhlakama, the group's leader, Fernando Mazanga, Renamo's spokesman, told the Financial Times.
11	13	The government blames Renamo for triggering the clashes, accusing it of attacking soldiers.
11	14	President Armando Guebuza has sought to play down concerns about instability.
11	15	Mr Guebuza told AFP, the French news agency, on Wednesday that Mr Dhlakama saw himself as a "loser" who wanted to use "whatever remains of his forces to try to prove that he can impose on the government his own decisions."
11	16	Both Frelimo and Renamo insist they want to avoid war.
11	17	But concerns have grown after Mr Mazanga was quoted as saying Renamo was abandoning the 1992 peace accord.
11	18	He told the FT that he meant the agreement was no longer being respected by Frelimo.
11	19	"Our vision is to come back to negotiations, but with seriousness," Mr Mazanga said.
11	20	Previous talks between the parties have done little to ease tensions fuelled by a series of clashes this year.
11	21	"It's two big men (Guebuza and Dhlakama) butting heads together," said Joseph Hanlon, a lecturer at the Open University and Mozambique expert.
11	22	Neither of them are good negotiators and neither of them are prepared to make the kind of concessions that are necessary.
11	23	Renamo, which has been pushing for electoral reforms, had already said that it would boycott municipal elections due in November.
11	24	Presidential and parliamentary polls are scheduled for next year.
11	25	Some commentators have interpreted its use of force as the attempt of an ailing movement to win concessions and financial spoils from the government.
11	26	Renamo's share of the vote has been declining since 1992, while a newer party, the Democratic Movement of Mozambique (MDM) which was formed by a former Renamo member, is expected to improve its showing at the elections.
11	27	Mr Mazanga says Mr Guebuza - who is due to step down when his second term ends next year - wants to destroy the country's democracy.
11	28	"He does not want multi-party democracy, he does not want transparent elections he does not want peace because he does not want to leave the presidency," Mr Mazanga said.
11	29	It is unclear how much capacity Renamo has, but it has carried out disruptive hit-and-run attacks on police stations and vehicles on a key north-south highway.
11	30	Most of the skirmishes have taken place in Sofala province, which is several hundred kilometres north of Maputo, but hosts Beira, the port that miners, including Rio Tinto and Vale, rely on to export coal.
11	31	In June, Rio suspended its use of the railway for about a week after Renamo threatened to attack the line.
11	32	Mr Mazanga was coy when asked about whether Renamo would repeat this threat.
11	33	Renamo wanted to "warn the international community that things were not going well in Mozambique," Mr Mazanga said.
11	34	The instability has added to frustrations with the government, says Fernando Lima, head of Mediacoop, an independent media company, with many people also concerned about corruption, the slow pace of development and a recent spate of kidnappings.
11	35	"People think the ones responsible for the future of the country are the government and the president, and he should be the one to find solutions for the problems," he says.
11	36	Omar Sultuane, a demonstrator, said people just wanted stability.
11	37	"No one cares about Renamo and Frelimo, they just want peace again, they want free access to the roads," he said.


12	1	Aircraft electronic device rules to stay in force in Australia for now
12	2	Australian airline passengers will need to continue turning off their tablets and smart phones during take-off and landing despite moves in the US to loosen regulations covering the devices.
12	3	The US Federal Aviation Administration has left the way open for American carriers to change their procedures so that passengers will be able to read e-books, watch videos or play games on their devices during critical phases of flight provided they remain in "airplane" mode.
12	4	Passengers can already do this during the bulk of a flight but many people find it annoying to be unable to access their e-books during take-offs and landings.
12	5	Australian carriers are looking at the decision, which requires US carriers to undertake a massive amount of work to meet the requirements, but have indicated they have no immediate plans to change their procedures.
12	6	The Civil Aviation Safety Authority also said it was looking at the announcement but emphasised that restrictions on the use of electronic devices in critical phases of flight were still in place in Australia.
12	7	"CASA currently has no specific regulations governing the use of electronic devices in aircraft," it said.
12	8	The issue is covered by regulations which require aircraft operators to ensure safety is maintained at all times and passengers to comply with the safety instructions given by crew members.
12	9	Virgin, which has already been talking to CASA about extending the use its in-flight wi-fi entertainment system, was amenable to a change but said it would take its lead from the regulator.
12	10	"We would welcome a review by CASA into allowing the use of electronic devices because we really do think it will improve the customer experience now that we have (wireless in-flight entertainment) on our planes," a spokesman said.
12	11	Qantas said it would stick with the current rules for now.
12	12	"Our current policy is that electronic devices cannot be used during take-off and landing and we have no immediate plans to change that," it said.
12	13	The FAA ruling applies to American airlines.
12	14	However, we are always interested in regulatory developments that could benefit passengers and we will certainly be taking a close look at the FAA's decision and the reasons behind it.
12	15	For US carriers, the impact of the ruling will vary from airline to airline and will depend on the age of their fleet.
12	16	Carriers will need to prove their planes can tolerate radio interference from mobile devices as well as revise manuals, training materials, carry-on baggage programs and passenger briefings.
12	17	"Once an airline verifies the tolerance of its fleet, it can allow passengers to use handheld, lightweight electronic devices such as tablets, e-readers, and smartphones-at all altitudes," the FAA said.
12	18	In rare instances of low visibility, the crew will instruct passengers to turn off their devices during landing.
12	19	The group also recommended that heavier devices should be safely stowed under seats or in overhead bins during take-off and landing.


13	1	Obama's Health Care Walk Back
13	2	Amid a firestorm of criticism, President Obama yesterday walked back his oft-repeated, unambiguous promise that "if you like your health plan, you can keep it."
13	3	With hundreds of thousands receiving cancellation notices from their providers, Republicans have slammed the president in recent days for misleading the American public.
13	4	Yesterday, Obama tweaked his original pledge.
13	5	"For the vast majority of people who have health insurance that works, you can keep it," he said in a speech in Boston.
13	6	Addressing what he called the "flurry in the news" about the cancellations, Obama urged Americans receiving these notices to shop for new coverage in the marketplace.
13	7	Most people are going to be able to get better, comprehensive health care plans for the same price or even cheaper than projected.
13	8	"You're going to get a better deal," he said.
13	9	The administration has said it should come as no surprise that the 5 percent of the population who purchase insurance on their own may be forced to switch plans because their coverage doesn't meet the new standards required under the Affordable Care Act.
13	10	"Let me say directly to these Americans: you deserve better," Sebelius said in testimony before the House Energy and Commerce Committee in Washington.
13	11	Sebelius, who is overseeing implementation of the Affordable Care Act, said the launch of the online marketplace has gone "miserably" since October.
13	12	"I am as frustrated and angry as anyone," she said.
13	13	I am eager to earn your confidence back.
13	14	An exasperated Sebelius uttered that phrase, caught by a hot mic, to an aide seated behind her at yesterday's House hearing following a contentious exchange with Rep. Billy Long, R-Mo., over whether she should be required to enroll in Obamacare.
13	15	More than three hours into the hearing, Long repeatedly pressed Sebelius on why the "architect" of the Affordable Care Act has not voluntarily forgone government-sponsored insurance to purchase a plan through HealthCare.gov, which she is now pitching to millions of Americans.


14	1	Dmitry Medvedev: the Greenpeace case will be considered impartially
14	2	The RF Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev on Friday announced that the case of Greenpeace activists will be examined in strict accordance with Russian legislation.
14	3	France can have no doubt that examination of the case will be conducted in compliance with legislation, we hear all concerns.
14	4	"We can guarantee adherence to laws," declared Dmitry Medvedev at a meeting with the Prime Minister of France Jean-Marc Ayrault.
14	5	There is is a citizen of France among the detained Greenpeace activists.
14	6	Just as the other activists, Pierre Pisanu has been charged with hooliganism.
14	7	"I asked if we could expect an act of good-will in relation to the detained citizen," "RIA Novosti" cites Mr. Ayrault.
14	8	"Our country cannot support activity that could damage the environment, no one has the right to violate laws," Dmitry Medvedev declared in turn.
14	9	According to him, the attempt of any structures to affect technologically complex and dangerous processes, including the production of energy sources, is a hazardous activity.
14	10	He emphasized that these facilities are "like a powder keg", and recalled what occurred in the Gulf of Mexico, reports "RIA Novosti".


15	1	The girlfriend of Semyon Varlamov declared that the hockey player suffers from alcoholism
15	2	The girlfriend of Semyon Varlamov Evgenia Vavrinyuk declared that he suffers from alcoholism, reports the Russian News Service.
15	3	"He has no idea about how to stop drinking," the woman declared in particular.
15	4	Let us recall that Vavrinyuk sued for battery the goalkeeper of Team Russia Semyon Varlamov, who is also a member of the "Colorado" club.
15	5	According to her, the hockey player pulled her by the hair, and beat up - after the attack her hands, chest, stomach and neck were injured.
15	6	Varlamov surrendered himself to Denver police and admitted to battery, describing the event in detail.
15	7	He was arrested, but later was released on bail of $5,000.
15	8	The court did not restrict the athlete's movements in the country but prohibited approaching Vavrinyuk.
15	9	He also faces imprisonment for a term of up to 6 years for domestic violence.


16	1	Blizzard released a 19-year-old platformer free of charge
16	2	The studio Blizzard released its 1994 platformer Blackthorne for PC free of charge.
16	3	This is reported by WoW Insider.
16	4	According to its data, the game became available on Battle.net in the classic games section of Blizzard.
16	5	However, some gamers note that presently only those users whose accounts are linked to the American portion of the service can download it.
16	6	The game is also still inaccessible for Russian users.
16	7	As the media reports, the version that Blizzard just released for PC by appearance does not differ from the original version of the game.
16	8	The soundtrack to Blackthorne also remained unchanged.
16	9	The platformer Blackthorne, which Blizzard released 19 years ago, initially came out for SNES consoles.
16	10	Its events were set on the planet Tuul, whose inhabitants were divided into dark and light kingdoms.
16	11	One day the dark ruler Sarlac decided to kill the light king Vlaros and become the sole ruler of the planet.
16	12	The main hero of the game is the son of Vlaros Kyle who was saved from death by being sent to Earth.
16	13	Twenty years later he returned to Tuul in order to battle against the henchmen of Sarlac and protect the planet's inhabitants from them.
16	14	The original Blackthorne became the first game that the studio released after its renaming to Blizzard Entertainment.
16	15	Before that it was called Silicon & Synapse.
16	16	The publisher of Blackthorne was the company Interplay.


17	1	Coulson used phone hacking to verify tip
17	2	Former News of the World editor Andy Coulson allegedly used "phone hacking, surveillance and confrontation" in an attempt to confirm a bogus tip about an affair involving then-home secretary Charles Clarke.
17	3	Prosecutor Andrew Edis QC told the Old Bailey that the News of the World heard a false rumour in May 2005 that Clarke was seeing his "attractive special adviser," Hannah Pawlby.
17	4	The newspaper tasked private investigator Glenn Mulcaire with hacking Pawlby's voicemails and "door-stepped" her, but Coulson also called and left her voicemails, the court heard.
17	5	"The prosecution suggests that Mr Coulson, who is now the editor of the NotW, he is not the man who stands outside people's houses hoping to catch them out, he is the man who likes to put the story to people to see what they will say," Mr Edis said.
17	6	He said the NotW used three ways to investigate stories: phone hacking, surveillance, and confrontation.
17	7	The editor is personally involved in the third.
17	8	Obviously he knows about the second, surveillance, he must do.
17	9	What about the first?
17	10	Does he know about phone hacking?
17	11	He says he doesn't, we say "Oh yes, he did".
17	12	Rumours about an affair involving Clarke were first picked up by the NotW's features desk when a source who was sexually interested in Ms Pawlby was told: "Don't bother wasting your time, she's with Charles."
17	13	A tape of voicemails taken from her phone on at least three occasions was seized from Mulcaire's home in August 2006.
17	14	Investigators also found entries on the private investigator's computer which had Ms Pawlby and her sister as "Projects."
17	15	During the period she was being investigated, Ms Pawlby's grandparents received anonymous calls asking for information about her, Mr Edis said.
17	16	Meanwhile, former chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck and former reporter James Weatherup oversaw surveillance of Ms Pawlby's movements.
17	17	Leaving her a voicemail on June 18 2005, Coulson told her: "I've got a story that we're planning to run tomorrow that I really would like to speak to Charles about."
17	18	Mr Edis said Coulson's involvement in the story followed the same pattern as with other important men, such as former home secretary David Blunkett.
17	19	The jury heard on Thursday that Coulson confronted Mr Blunkett over an affair with a married woman while he was himself seeing co-defendant Rebekah Brooks, who was married at the time.
17	20	Coulson and Brooks deny conspiring with others to hack phones between October 3 2000 and August 9 2006.
17	21	Mulcaire, Thurlbeck and Weatherup have admitted phone hacking.


18	1	There is no "Brotherly Circle" group In Ministry of Internal Affairs databases to which the U.S. linked Leps
18	2	The "Brotherly Circle" group, to which Washington has linked the singer Grigory Leps, does not appear in the databases of Russian security agencies.
18	3	As pointed out to Interfax in law enforcement agencies of the RF, after reports of Grigory Leps being entered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury into blacklists on suspicion of involvement with the Eurasian crime syndicate "Brotherly Circle" emerged in the media, all databases were checked, but such a group was not found.
18	4	Security Agencies believe that distribution of such information helps maintain the myth about the so-called "Russian mafia", which supposedly operates abroad.
18	5	"Even in the name itself - 'Brotherly Circle', there is a certain element of mystery, containing a hint of a secret lodge.
18	6	"All this is very similar to a PR stunt," said an agency source.
18	7	On October 31, the U.S. Department of the Treasury announced the entry of Artur Badalyan, Grigory Lepsveridze, Vadim Lyalin, Sergei Moskalenko, Yakov Ribalskiy and Igor Shlikov into its blacklists on suspicion of involvement with the Eurasian crime syndicate "Brotherly Circle".
18	8	The persons entered into this list are suspected of links to a certain Vladislav Leontyev and Gafur Rakhimov, who are considered influential members of criminal groups and are on U.S. sanctions lists since February of 2012.
18	9	According to American authorities, Grigory Leps "serves as a courier for delivering money on behalf of Vladislav Leontyev".
18	10	At Grigory Leps' production center, they declined to comment on the U.S. accusations leveled at the singer, calling it "nonsense".
18	11	In 2011, president of the United States Barack Obama added the syndicate "Brotherly Circle" to the list of "significant transnational organized criminal groups" and ordered the Department of the Treasury to "disrupt and inhibit their global criminal operations".
18	12	A person's entry into blacklists of the American Department of the Treasury entails blocking his assets in the U.S. and banning business contacts with him by persons living in the United States.


19	1	Scientists have shed more light on how the movements of a dog's tail are linked to its mood.
19	2	Earlier research had revealed that happy dogs wag their tails more to the right (from the dog's point of view), while nervous dogs have a left-dominated swish.
19	3	But now scientists say that fellow canines can spot and respond to these subtle tail differences.
19	4	Prof Georgio Vallortigara, a neuroscientist from the University of Trento, said: "It is very well known in humans that the left and right side of the brain are differently involved in stimuli that invokes positive or negative emotions."
19	5	Here we attempted to look at it in other species.
19	6	He added that just as in humans, for dogs the right side of the brain was responsible for left-handed movement and vice versa, and the two hemispheres played different roles in emotions.
19	7	To find out more about how dogs react to the lop-sided tail wags of other dogs, the researchers monitored the animals as they watched films of other dogs.
19	8	They measured the pets' heart rates and analysed their behaviour.
19	9	It will probably not be long before we understand why their tails sometimes go one way, sometimes the other
19	10	Prof Vallortigara said: "We presented dogs with movies of dogs - either a naturalistic version or a silhouette to get rid of any other confounding issues, and we could doctor the movement of the tail and present the tail more to the left or right."
19	11	When the animals saw an otherwise expressionless dog move its tail to the right (from the tail-wagging dog's point of view), they stayed perfectly relaxed.
19	12	But when they spotted a tail veer predominantly to the left (again from the tail-swishing dog's point of view), their heart rates picked up and they looked anxious.
19	13	Prof Vallortigara said he didn't think that the dogs were intentionally communicating with each other through these movements.
19	14	Instead, he believes that they dogs have learned from experience what moves they should and shouldn't feel worried about.
19	15	He said: "If you have several meetings with other dogs, and frequently their tail wagging one way is associated with a more friendly behaviour, and the right side is producing a less friendly behaviour, you respond on the basis of that experience."
19	16	The researchers say the findings could give owners, vets and trainers a better insight into their animal's emotions.
19	17	Dog behaviour expert John Bradshaw, a visiting fellow at the University of Bristol's school of veterinary science, said this was not the first study to examine whether left and right were important to canines.
19	18	Last year a team from the University of Lincoln found that dogs turn their heads to the left when looking at an aggressive dog and to the right when looking at a happy dog.
19	19	And in another research paper from the University of Victoria in Canada, he said: "Dogs were more likely to approach a robot dog when its 'tail' was made to wag left rather than right, rather than becoming anxious - the opposite way around to the Italian study."
19	20	He said the differences could be because the dogs in the different studies were not fully interpreting the animals in the films or robo-dogs as canines.
19	21	A study of how dogs responded to real dogs could help, he explained.
19	22	"While there is considerable evidence from many different mammals that the two sides of the brain are used for different purposes, much of the detail still has to be hammered out - and dogs are no exception," he said.
19	23	However, given the ease with which their behaviour can be recorded, it will probably not be long before we understand why their tails sometimes go one way, sometimes the other.


20	1	Is Europe's elite ready to do business with Britain?
20	2	Business for Britain launched in April with a pledge to bring business together and define what the UK's wealth and job creators want to see changed in our relationship with the EU.
20	3	To that end, we commissioned the largest and most comprehensive poll of British business leaders asking them for their thoughts on Britain, business and the EU.
20	4	YouGov polled over 1,000 business leaders, broadly representative of Britain's business sizes, sectors and regions.
20	5	The conclusions of the poll will come as a surprise to many.
20	6	We found that the vast majority of businesses are now looking to export outside of Europe, focusing on countries that are modernising and growing while the EU states stagnate.
20	7	They want to see the Government prioritise new trading links with the likes of China, India and Brazil, rather than getting bogged down in the long and arduous process of reforming the EU's arcane institutions.
20	8	When asked their views on specific policy areas - ranging from monopoly regulation to product laws - the majority of business leaders thought that control of these key competences should be returned to Westminster.
20	9	There was general discontent with the Single Market, with businesses saying that the costs of Brussels regulation now outweighed the benefits of being part of Europe's trading area - even 40 per cent of large businesses, traditionally the most pro-European of companies, agreed.
20	10	Finally, and most tellingly of all, our poll of business leaders found a clear majority wanted to see Britain pursue a course of treaty change and a relationship with the EU that is based on trade, not politics.
20	11	This finding, which was reflected across the sizes and major business groups, shows that business is pushing for a "meaningful change" that brings powers back to the UK.
20	12	The stakes are high - achieving treaty change and a better deal for Britain sees a 16 per cent swing towards voting to stay in the EU in a referendum.
20	13	The Prime Minister should be in no doubt: this poll shows that British business backs his plan for renegotiating the terms of Britain's membership of the EU.
20	14	It also shows that business expects that renegotiation to make a significant shift in the current balance of power back towards the UK.
20	15	A better deal for British business is possible, and increasingly necessary as the eurozone embarks on the road to closer economic and fiscal union.
20	16	The priority must be jobs and growth in Britain and, as the findings of our poll show, for business this means a renewed focus on trade and a fundamental change in Brussels" regulatory approach.


21	1	A politician in Turkey went on a hunger strike in opposition to walls on the border with Syria
21	2	In mid October, authorities began construction of a dividing wall near the city of Nusaybin in southeast Turkey.
21	3	Local residents and representatives of the pro-Kurd party BDP came out harshly against the construction.
21	4	The mayor of the Turkish city of Nusaybin near the Syrian border, Aishe Gokkan went on a hunger strike, protesting against the construction of a dividing wall on the Turkish-Syrian border, reported RIA Novosti at the press office of the Peace and Democracy Party (BDP) on Friday.
21	5	Police repeatedly dispersed protest demonstrations.
21	6	The head of the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs Muammer Guler initially denied the construction, then announced that the wall is being constructed to provide border security.
21	7	"The mayor of Nusaybin, Aishe Gokhan, a member of the BDP, went on a hunger strike, thus turning her protest against construction of the wall into a deadly fight," they announced in the party's press office.
21	8	The mayor of the city believes that construction of the wall was designed to isolate the Kurdish people of the two countries from one another, Kurds have been crossing the border freely for half a century.
21	9	Representatives of the party quote Aishe Gokhan: "This is an inhumane situation with which the Kurds will never consent".
21	10	According to the press office, a protest against construction of the dividing wall is planned for November 7 in Nusaybin.


22	1	This morning in Saratskiy district the driver of a "Peugeot" drove onto the oncoming lane at 115 km of the Odessa-Reni highway and collided with a bus carrying six people.
22	2	This is being reported by the press office of the Road Emergency Service Administration in the Odessa region.
22	3	As a result of the incident, the 31-year-old driver of the "Peugeot" died.
22	4	Injured were a 55-year-old passenger and a 44-year-old bus driver, whose leg was jammed.
22	5	Medical personnel rendered first aid to the woman on the spot, she declined hospitalization.
22	6	Emergency medical personnel also examined all remaining passengers.
22	7	Rescuers lifted the bus with the aid of a crane and freed the bus driver whose leg was jammed in the door of the bus.


23	1	There is no point being a vegan in Siberia: a hothouse tomato will not replace soup
23	2	A correspondent from RIA Novosti explained why vegetarianism does not suit life in Siberia.
23	3	People who have completely abandoned animal products should not live in Siberia.
23	4	Here they could not endure the winter without damage to health, and no hothouse tomatoes will compensate them, believe Novosibirsk nutritionists and doctors surveyed on the eve of Vegetarian Day.
23	5	Drink liters of oil
23	6	Strict vegetarianism, when they abstain not only from meat and fish, but also from milk, honey, eggs, is becoming a popular way of life.
23	7	However, doctors-nutritionists are confident that to follow such strict norms in nutrition in Novosibirsk and other cities of Siberia is at the least unhealthy.
23	8	A total rejection of animal products is harmful.
23	9	In animal proteins there are essential amino acids that are very difficult to compensate with vegetables.
23	10	It is absolutely necessary to include at least milk or eggs into a diet," assures nutritionist Marina Bogai.
23	11	She cites as an example fish containing the essential fatty acid Omega-3.
23	12	The vegetable oil most rich in it is made of flax.
23	13	"In order to consume it in the amounts required for a human, it is necessary to drink liters of it!" says the nutritionist.
23	14	Medical professionals are confident that residents of Siberia need to give special attention to diet in the winter.
23	15	During this season, vegetarianism is especially dubious.
23	16	In our actual living conditions, high demands are placed on food.
23	17	Increased caloric content is needed not to freeze.
23	18	"If a person restricts his animal products, he will fall short of that caloric content accordingly," says the specialist.
23	19	Doctor-nutritionist Olga Poznyak agrees with this.
23	20	She adds that imported vegetables and fruits is not a solution.
23	21	It is better for a person to eat predominately products that were raised in the region of residence or there where he was born.
23	22	The genetic code is configured for better assimilation and digestion of these products.
23	23	And in winter people do not want to gnaw on a cucumber, but hot soup or something else more nourishing," the doctor explains her view.
23	24	According to her, out of what vegans can eat, really healthy are various cereals, croups, legumes, local vegetables, apples remaining in winter, frozen berries.
23	25	But this is unequivocally insufficient for good nourishment.
23	26	According to doctor-gastroenterologist Claudia Arifulina, in the bodies of Siberians the level of vitamins is sufficient only from the middle of August through the middle of September.
23	27	A full transition to vegetarianism in our harsh natural conditions, when the temperature can change by 30 degrees in a day and snow lies in May, is not appropriate.
23	28	The body needs energy for life, and that is, above all, fat," states the medical professional.
23	29	Doctors note that veganism is especially harmful for children and pregnant women.
23	30	Children are growing, they need building material, including in the form of amino acids.
23	31	But by adhering to vegetarianism, we provide them inadequately.
23	32	Pregnant women also need high-protein food, vitamins and minerals on the menu.
23	33	"Vegans do not receive enough of them," assures Bogai.
23	34	Arifulina says that an adult person is free to choose whatever he likes, "to play with the toys that he wants".
23	35	He has an already formed body, skeleton, organs.
23	36	But children nonetheless must be nourished adequately.
23	37	If parents deprive him of some kinds of minerals or amino acids, choosing for him what he will eat, this is simply a violation of the child's rights.
23	38	"You will not be able to restore tomorrow deficiencies of some or other substances for development of the brain, vision, bones," she says.
23	39	All surveyed expert medical professionals agree on the low quality of winter-grown hothouse and imported vegetables and fruits.
23	40	What they import to us and what is grown in hothouses contains less minerals essential to us than (grown) on open ground.
23	41	"The quality of products is not right," says Bogai.
23	42	Arifulina also notes that imported and hothouse vegetables and fruits are far from ideal standards.
23	43	Sometimes the desire of producers to gather a large harvest harms quality.
23	44	"Apples do not become brown when cut, cucumbers quickly turn yellow and grow moldy, tomatoes are tasteless and non-aromatic," the medical professional cites examples, adding that they are most likely crammed with an excessive amount of fertilizers.
23	45	And they become providers not of vitamins, but of cellulose.
23	46	The head of the laboratory of the Siberian physics and technological institute of agricultural issues, candidate of agricultural sciences Vera Petruk does not agree with this.
23	47	She says that with the correct approach and adherence to all norms and requirements, it is possible to grow wholesome vegetables in hothouses.
23	48	If they try to force out more from a square meter, then, of course, they also begin to water more frequently, and overfeed plants with mineral fertilizers.
23	49	For example, when there are too much nitrogen fertilizers, tomatoes grow quickly, they are large, but watery and not sweet," she explains, adding that the issue of quality primarily depends on the conscience of the producer.


24	1	Russia is not involved in the struggle with urban vechicle-pollution
24	2	Attempts to solve transportation problems inherent to large cities have been observed in most of the world's megalopolises since the second half of the 20th century.
24	3	As a rule this has involved either reconstruction and expansion of main roads, or attempts to reduce the demand for car travel, the number of cars and their usage time.
24	4	One widely known example is that of Singapore, where a rigid quota system curbs the growing number of private vehicles, and the right to acquire vehicles is bought via auctions.
24	5	Its price could be two to three times higher than the actual price of the vehicle.
24	6	European cities, including London, have introduced a fee to drive into the city center.
24	7	Germany, for example in Hamburg and Stuttgart, has established so-called green zones that allow only vehicles rated with a certain ecological class that also use high-quality fuel (including biofuels or electric cars).
24	8	The Beijing environmental protection agency, for example, in 2012 confirmed a "five-year clean air plan" with a total cost of approximately 250 billion yuan (around $40 billion).
24	9	As told to Kommersant by Lee Kunsheng, the director of the vehicular pollution supervision department of the municipal agency of Beijing environmental protection, the main goal of the five-year plan is to reduce the leading air pollutants by 20-35% by 2017, as well as to prevent the number of privately-owned vehicles from exceeding 6 million (it is currently at 5.2 million) and to prevent fuel usage per vehicle from increasing by more than 5%.
24	10	Based on data from the agency, in Beijing automotive transport is currently responsible for 22.5% of total air pollution.
24	11	The key measures of the program include restricted use of automotive transport as well as additional taxes imposed on vehicle owners.
24	12	Some of the citywide measures envisaged by the "green five-year plan" include an accelerated transition to Euro fuel standards ahead of the rest of the country, introduction of a local system of environmental standards and markings for vehicles and fuels, restricted vehicle access to the central part of the city, prohibited use of outdated vehicles (in addition, the creation of financial incentive programs to replace old cars with hybrids or electric cars), development of electric transportation (including for public and official use), and development of public transport (including high-speed).
24	13	Some of the vehicle-based innovations introduced by Beijing include a measure that prohibits operation of all private vehicles within the fifth transport ring (in total the Chinese capital has six of them) one day per week (appropriate information is displayed on the vehicle license plate), as well as the issuance of vehicle license plates based on a lottery (for example, in 2011, which was the first year of the lottery, the total number of permits to register private vehicles in Beijing made up only a third of the total number from 2010).
24	14	In accordance with the active government program titled "Environmental Protection for 2012-2020", the number of cities rated with high or very high air pollution shall be reduced to 128 (there were 138 in 2012).
24	15	According to data from the Ministry of Natural Resources, in 2011 "mobile sources" accounted for 41% of all air pollutant emissions in cities.
24	16	In Moscow, for example, emissions from vehicles are ten times higher than industrial emissions, while in St. Petersburg they are nine times higher.
24	17	At present, the Russian Federation is merely just beginning to think about the possibilities for regulating vehicles on city streets.
24	18	Mikhail Blinkin, director of the Institute of Economics for Transportation and Transportation Policy of the Higher School of Economics, believes that administrative and fiscal measures aimed at suppressing demand for car travel are notoriously unpopular, and could be accepted by the public only if they are universally applied.
24	19	Moscow has a unique problem related to the structure of its vehicle population, in which there are two clusters that are only slightly sensitive to any regulatory measures - official and private vehicles, as well as vehicles of "privileged" people who number at least 200 thousand (nearly 5% of the total vehicle population of Moscow).
24	20	Recently, urban researchers from the EKOM center in St. Petersburg conducted studies that analyze the balance between city territory and residential areas, road surface area and number of motor vehicles.
24	21	Main conclusions of the researchers: the city center contains less than half the roads it needs, and the majority of drivers who live in the center do not use their vehicles every day but leave them in parking areas or simply on the streets for long periods.
24	22	As a result, they propose construction of vehicle storage areas instead of parking areas, and narrowing of roadways (so that streets become more pedestrian-friendly) instead of their expansion, and also propose placing restrictions on driving and parking personal vehicles within the protected zone of the historical city center (which occupies a territory of approximately 3,212 hectares and covers a number of central districts of the city).


25	1	The tax maneuver that provides for an increase in the mineral extraction tax (MET) for oil simultaneously with the reduction in export duties and increase in excise taxes will lead to more expensive fuel.
25	2	According to experts, these measures could bring an additional 619.3 billion rubles into the budget.


26	1	Trekking through mud, rivers and jungle to provide free medical care
26	2	Dr. Georges Bwelle is bringing free health care to rural villages in Cameroon
26	3	Bwelle and his team spend almost every weekend seeing hundreds of patients
26	4	There aren't many doctors in the west African country; just one for every 5,000 people
26	5	Cast your vote here or through your mobile device
26	6	Dr. Georges Bwelle is one of the top 10 CNN Heroes of 2013.
26	7	You can vote for him, or any of the other top 10 Heroes, to be CNN Hero of the Year.
26	8	That person will receive $250,000 to continue their extraordinary work.
26	9	For 21 years, Georges Bwelle watched his ill father slip in and out of consciousness, traveling to hospitals that weren't equipped to help him.
26	10	Jamef Bwelle was injured in a 1981 car accident near Yaounde, Cameroon's capital.
26	11	He suffered only a broken arm at first, but an infection developed and spread to his brain, creating a hematoma that would affect him for the rest of his life.
26	12	"There were no neurosurgeons in Cameroon," Georges Bwelle said.
26	13	We would have taken him out of Cameroon if we had the money.
26	14	Instead, Bwelle spent years escorting his father to overcrowded clinics and hospitals, getting whatever treatment they could get.
26	15	"It's not easy," Bwelle said.
26	16	You can leave home at 5 a.m., running to the hospital to be the first, and you are not the first.
26	17	There are a lot of patients.
26	18	Some people can die because they are waiting.
26	19	The situation hasn't changed much since Bwelle's father passed away in 2002.
26	20	In Cameroon, there is only one doctor for every 5,000 people, according to the World Health Organization.
26	21	For comparison's sake, the ratio in the United States is one doctor for every 413 people.
26	22	And even if they could see a physician, many Cameroonians couldn't afford it.
26	23	Two out of five people in the country live below the poverty line, and nearly three-quarters of the country's health-care spending is private.
26	24	"The only problem they have is poverty," Bwelle said.
26	25	And with poverty, they cannot enjoy their life.
26	26	Seeing his father and so many of his countrymen suffer, Bwelle was determined to do something about it.
26	27	Dr. Georges Bwelle and his team of volunteers have performed 700 free surgeries in the past year.
26	28	He became a doctor himself, working as a vascular surgeon in Yaounde's Central Hospital.
26	29	And he started a nonprofit, ASCOVIME, that travels into rural areas on weekends to provide free medical care.
26	30	Since 2008, he and his group of volunteers have helped nearly 32,000 people.
26	31	Almost every Friday, he and up to 30 people jam into vans, tie medical supplies to the roofs and travel across rough terrain to visit villages in need.
26	32	Their luck doesn't always hold out.
26	33	They've had to push vehicles through rivers and mud more than once.
26	34	But when they arrive, they receive a true heroes' welcome: a feast, singing and dancing, and the best accommodations the community can offer.
26	35	In these villages, free medical care is truly a cause for celebration, and Bwelle -- with his big smile and boundless energy -- is more than happy to join in the fun.
26	36	The next morning, the team begins meeting with hundreds of patients.
26	37	"We are receiving 500 people in each trip," Bwelle said.
26	38	They are coming from 60 kilometers around the village, and they're coming on foot.
26	39	Each of these weekend clinics provides a variety of medical care.
26	40	Many people are treated for malaria, tuberculosis, malnutrition, diabetes, parasites and sexually transmitted diseases.
26	41	Others might receive crutches, a pair of donated eyeglasses or free birth certificates -- documentation that's required for school but that many impoverished families simply can't afford.
26	42	In the evenings, the team will do simple surgeries with local anesthesia.
26	43	Operations are usually done in a schoolhouse, town hall or home; after the procedure, patients get up and walk to the recovery area to make way for the next person.
26	44	With the group's generator lighting the operating room and sanitizing equipment, Bwelle and his volunteers work into the early hours of Sunday morning.
26	45	It's a backbreaking pace, but village musicians usually help keep the team motivated.
26	46	"They are beating drums all night to keep us awake and continue our work," Bwelle said.
26	47	On Sunday, the team heads back to the city, tired but proud of their work.
26	48	The group -- a mix of Cameroonian doctors and foreign medical students -- has performed 700 free surgeries in the past year, and they know that their help can make a world of difference to those they help.
26	49	One man explained that the free hernia surgery he'd received will allow him to work again.
26	50	"This will change my future with my family," the man said.
26	51	In addition to holding these weekend clinics and working as a hospital surgeon, Bwelle also works nights at private medical clinics around Yaounde.
26	52	It's this second job, he said, that funds about 60% of his nonprofit; the rest is covered by private donations.
26	53	"I'm not sure when he sleeps," said Katie O'Malley, a second-year medical student from Drexel University in Philadelphia and volunteer with Bwelle's group.
26	54	He is always either at the hospital or trying to make money for the organization so he can go on these campaigns.
26	55	For medical and nursing students such as O'Malley, who come from the United States and Europe to join Bwelle on his missions, it's a hands-on opportunity they'd never get at home.
26	56	"We've been able to scrub in on surgeries where we help blot blood away or hold tools for Dr. Bwelle," O'Malley said.
26	57	That's not something you'd ever get to do in America as a second-year medical student.
26	58	The student volunteers usually pay their own way to Cameroon, often arriving with donated medical supplies.
26	59	But once they arrive in Yaounde, their board, transportation and instruction are covered by Bwelle.
26	60	"He's a hero, without a doubt," O'Malley said.
26	61	He gives his life to this organization, and his desire to help the Cameroon people is everlasting.
26	62	For Bwelle, the near-constant workload isn't a hardship.
26	63	Helping others live happier lives, fulfilling a promise he made to his father, is something that brings him great joy.
26	64	"I am so happy when I am doing this work," Bwelle said.
26	65	And I think about my father.
26	66	I hope he sees what I am doing.
26	67	To make people laugh, to reduce the pain, that's why I'm doing this.
26	68	Check out the ASCOVIME website and see how to help.


27	1	In the U.S. a new name has finally taken hold for the "Russian mafia" - "Brotherly Circle"
27	2	This week the "Russian mafia" blacklist in America was replenished with new names and four companies.
27	3	The U.S. Department of the Treasury entered three representatives of Russia, two citizens of Uzbekistan and an Israeli into the "Brotherly Circle".
27	4	One of the Russians turned out to be the famous singer Grigory Leps, whom the U.S. suspects of transporting money for members of the group.
27	5	In total in the U.S. black list are 22 persons linked to the "Brotherly Circle", and six organizations affiliated with it.
27	6	Nonetheless many experts are expressing doubts that such an organization actually exists.
27	7	"The announcement about the 'Brotherly Circle' looks more like an attempt to merge disconnected criminal groups," previously stated the expert on organized crime and professor of New York University Mark Galeotti.
27	8	According to him, the "Brotherly Circle" reflects the popular perception of the "Russian mafia".
27	9	"I have not met anyone in Russian law enforcement agencies or anywhere else who would confirm the existence of such a criminal organization," the American Center for Research of Corruption and Organized Crime cites Mr. Galeotti.
27	10	George Mason University professor Louise Shelly also agrees with Mr. Galeotti.
27	11	"Even if they operate jointly, then this looks more like a criminal network, but not an organization," she is quoted by the Center for Research of Corruption and Organized Crime.
27	12	In the middle of last year Mark Galeotti conjectured that the "Brotherly Circle" to a large extent unites those those close to the Russian "thief in law" Aslan Usoyan, known as Grandpa Hasan.
27	13	The crime boss was killed in January of this year.
27	14	For example, the activity of Lashi Shushanashvili and Zakhary Kalashov, who augmented the list in 2012, was tightly linked to Grandpa Hasan, and another entry in the list, Temuri Mirzoev, was a nephew of Grandpa Hasan.
27	15	Nevertheless, Mr. Galeotti notes that several of the persons have no relation to Usoyan.
27	16	According to him, common financial and criminal interests, for example, deliveries of narcotics from Afghanistan, more likely united them all.
27	17	Meanwhile, the scandal surrounding the inclusion into the "Brotherly Circle" of Grigory Leps - the favorite singer of Russian president Vladimir Putin - caught the attention of the Kremlin.
27	18	Naturally, we expect to receive from our American colleagues-partners more detailed information based on which such a decision was made, why they added him to such lists, - said the press secretary of the head of state Dmitry Peskov.
27	19	In any case, he (Leps) is a citizen of the RF.
27	20	His interests will be protected just as the interests of all citizens of the RF.


28	1	Tony Blair said he'd seize the chance to return as Britain's prime minister - but acknowledges a comeback is unlikely.
28	2	In an interview overnight to mark the fifth anniversary of his departure from office, the 59-year-old aired his views on various domestic policies.
28	3	Since he stood down in June 2007 after a decade as leader, Mr Blair has largely avoided discussing British politics, confining most of his comments to foreign affairs and his role as envoy to the Quartet of Middle East peacemakers.
28	4	Asked if he would return to the post of prime minister, Mr Blair was quoted by London's Evening Standard as saying: "Yes, sure, but it's not likely to happen is it, so..."


29	1	The head trainer of "Milan" Massimiliano Allegri expressed regret regarding the draw in the 10th round match of the Italy Championships against "Lazio".
29	2	The expert also noted that failures at the start were caused by a series of injuries of leading players.
29	3	I am really sorry that we were not able to win, Tmw quotes Allegri.
29	4	The team played a good match, creating 3-4 good opportunities.
29	5	In the first half we did not allow "Lazio" anything.
29	6	In the second the Romans gained, but on the whole I cannot say that we lost concentration.
29	7	We needed to win.
29	8	Last season we met the objective to make it to the Champions League.
29	9	Now we are behind schedule, but this was caused by an entire series of injures of key footballers.
29	10	Rami and Honda?
29	11	Those are very good players, with character.
29	12	However, our roster is also good now.
29	13	Look at Kaka, who played the meet at a high level.


30	1	British police serve Assange with extradition notice
30	2	Btitish police served an extradition notice today on WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who has taken refuge in Ecuador's embassy in London and requested asylum.
30	3	Scotland Yard said they had served a "surrender notice" on the 40-year-old Australian requiring him to appear at a police station, adding that failure to do so would make him further liable to arrest.
30	4	Assange faces extradition to Sweden over sex crime allegations, having exhausted his options under British law when the Supreme Court overturned his appeal against extradition earlier this month.
30	5	Fearing Stockholm would pass him on to the US, he sought refuge at Ecuador's embassy in London on June 19, asking the South American country for political asylum.
30	6	Scotland Yard has "served a surrender notice upon a 40-year-old man that requires him to attend a police station at date and time of our choosing," a spokesman said.
30	7	He remains in breach of his bail conditions.
30	8	The embassy declined to comment on the serving of the police notice.
30	9	Assange fears he will be extradited from Sweden to the United States to face possible espionage charges, after releasing more than 250,000 US diplomatic cables on the WikiLeaks anti-secrecy website.


31	1	Presently Roman Senchin is in Paris at a presentation of his novel "Yeltishevi", translated into French.
31	2	Let us recall that precisely this novel of his became a finalist for four awards: "Clear glade", "Russian Booker", "National bestseller" and "Big book".
31	3	And last year for this book the author was conferred awards from the government of the Russian Federation relating to culture.
31	4	Roman Senchin is an undoubted leader in the generation of present-day thirty-year-old and forty-year-old prose writers.
31	5	Virtually every publication of his harsh stories and tales based on modern life material incites heated debates among critics from the most diverse areas.
31	6	It is fair to say that, combined together, the articles on prose and political essays of Senchin, reviews of his books and journal publications create an interesting and unexpected landscape of Russian literature from the end of the 1990's to the beginning of the 2010's.
31	7	In discussions on the works "of one of the most controversial modern writers", according to the critic Sergei Chuprinin, the dialog for the most part is guided by how participants understand the word "literature", how they view the present and future not only of our literature, but also of our life.
31	8	Unfortunately, the volume of the book did not allow its inclusion of the majority of articles and reviews from the regional media and blogosphere.
31	9	Analytical and review articles are provided generally abridged in the sections "Paragraphs..."


32	1	They may interrogate Snowden in Russia
32	2	Former employee of American intelligence agencies Edward Snowden most likely will not leave Russia to provide testimony on the matters regarding the wiretapping of telephone conversations of the chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel.
32	3	As a source familiar with the situation stated to Interfax, the American can respond to the questions of representatives of the German Prosecutor's Office in writing or face-to-face in Russia.
32	4	The departure of Edward Snowden beyond Russia is virtually excluded.
32	5	"In such a case he would lose the status of a refugee and may be turned over to Washington by allied countries of the U.S.," said an agency source.
32	6	"Instead, basically the Prosecutor's Office of Germany could send its representatives to the RF or submit written questions to Snowden," added the source, adding that this issue must be handled at an international level.
32	7	Previously, deputy of the German Bundestag Hans-Christian Stroebele reported that Edward Snowden is ready to provide testimony on the matter regarding the wiretapping of conversations of the chancellor of Germany by American intelligence agencies.
32	8	Snowden is ready to provide testimony to German law enforcement agencies either in Moscow or on the territory of Germany.
32	9	The former employee of the CIA indicated that he knows quite a lot.
32	10	Despite the fact that the U.S. NSA has obstructed all of his movements, Snowden is willing to come to Germany.
32	11	However, for that it is necessary to clearly define all conditions of his arrival," reported Stroebele to the television channel Euronews.
32	12	Snowden's lawyer Anatoliy Kucherena, commenting on the statement by the Interfax source, announced that his client may collaborate with German investigators, but when and how - he will decide himself.
32	13	The U.S. citizen Edward Snowden, who had worked in the National Security Agency (NSA) and the CIA, fled to Hong Kong in May of 2013, after which he disclosed information on secret operations of U.S. intelligence agencies regarding internet surveillance.
32	14	Snowden was flying transit through Moscow, but could not leave the airport because U.S. authorities revoked his passport, in absentia claiming serious accusations against him, and until the beginning of August he has remained in the transit area of Sheremetyevo airport.
32	15	On the first of August Snowden received a document conferring him temporary refuge on the territory of Russia for a period of one year and on that same day he left Sheremetyevo.
32	16	Yesterday the American's lawyer Anatoliy Kucherena announced that his client got a job at a "major Russian company".
32	17	German media reported on the NSA wiretapping of Angela Merkel last week.
32	18	According to journalists, the Americans began to wiretap the chancellor's telephone conversations in 2002.
32	19	The surveillance station allegedly was located in the U.S. embassy in Berlin.
32	20	After publication of these data German authorities announced that surveillance of Merkel violates the laws and sovereignty of Germany.


33	1	Land Rover rally series announced
33	2	The interior has racing seats and six-point harness belts, as well as an intercom system.
33	3	Options include upgraded brakes, a service package providing access to Bowler Works mechanics, logistic support, and vehicle storage between events.
33	4	Drew Bowler, the managing director of Bowler Motorsport, said: "Rally customers coming to Bowler have changed."
33	5	They're not all experienced racers, but people looking for excitement and adventure, and an achievable path towards world-class events.
33	6	We're delighted to be offering this path in partnership with Land Rover and the MSA, and believe the format offers a new way to experience different rally disciplines in the UK and overseas, and prepare entrants for the rigours and realities of Rally Raid.
33	7	We've really enjoyed developing the Defender Challenge car - it'll be a really fun championship.
33	8	Additionally, the Defender Challenge will provide a training and test day in February, as well as the option to compete in desert events in North Africa and the Middle East.


34	1	Children should be taught myths and legends as "models for a way of life", author says.
34	2	Tales of Thor could show "brute strength is no match for subtle trickery," while the Arthurian legends reveal the importance of having a dream.
34	3	Saying many of the myths would be "far too wild, far too scandalous and in some cases far too filthy to be taught in schools," Crossley-Holland advocated a "careful selection" of age-appropriate works.
34	4	"I find it wonderful that in America, myth and folklore already has a part in education," he said.
34	5	I have been advocating it as a plan for twenty years.
34	6	He added authors and teachers being "overtly didactic" is a "total switch-off" for children, with messages being "subliminated" in enjoyable stories.
34	7	Crossley-Holland, who has translated Beowulf from Anglo-Saxon as well as writing the Penguin Book of Norse Myths and British Folk Tales, said: "You may well have intentions but you do better to keep them well out of sight."
34	8	Perhaps the big difference between an adult author writing for an adult and an adult author writing for a child is the necessity for some sense of hope.
34	9	Not that everything has to be simplified or come to a happy ending, but that there is an innate sense of good and evil.
34	10	And that must be subliminated; revealed through a story rather than stated.
34	11	The old basis of showing not telling.


35	1	Goldman Sachs warned of risks for the Russian economy
35	2	Goldman Sachs warned of the growing risks for the key driver of the fragile economic growth in Russia - consumption.
35	3	This is primarily a crisis of non-payment of unsecured consumer loans and massive job cuts.
35	4	Our main concern now is not the slowing of growth, but rather the structure of that growth.
35	5	Recently growth has been fully determined by consumption, which is seeing virtually no slowdown," said the chief economist for Goldman Sachs of Russia, Clemens Grafe while presenting the investment bank's quarterly report on the Russian economy yesterday.
35	6	Presently, the nominal growth of wages in Russia is around 10%.
35	7	With 6% inflation, it could keep the future consumer demand at approximately the current level, anticipates Goldman Sachs.
35	8	However, the profitability of Russian companies is going down, therefore they will most likely begin optimizing personnel costs.
35	9	Today we are seeing substantial growth in the wage share of GDP: if wages grow by 10%, then GDP grows only by 2%, - explained Mr. Grafe.
35	10	Companies have been confronted with reduced profitability.
35	11	If it does not grow, this could lead to layoffs and growth of unemployment.
35	12	Russian business has no choice but to increase wages, comments the chief economist of Barclays Capital for Russia and CIS countries Vladimir Pantyushin.
35	13	Unemployment is close to historical minimums, competition for workers is high.
35	14	In order to lure employees from outside or retain existing ones, employers have to raise wages.
35	15	Consumption in Russia is supported also by a rapid growth of consumer loans.
35	16	According to Mr. Grafe, due to the extremely high rates on consumer loans, this type of loan does not exert a multiplier effect on the country's economy.
35	17	"We have not seen any benefits to the economy from the growth in consumer loans, money is not distributed throughout the economy, but is returned to the same banks in the form of interests payments," said the economist.
35	18	However, the problem lies elsewhere- Goldman Sachs anticipates a growth in delinquency on unsecured loans.
35	19	They are primarily taken out by modest-income people who have nothing to provide as collateral.
35	20	The interest rates for such loans are high.
35	21	As a result, they are more often not paid back," noted Mr. Grafe.
35	22	Therefore, the second threat to economic growth in Russia is a possible crisis of non-payment of unsecured loans.
35	23	The director of the Banking Institute of the Higher School of Economics Vasiliy Solodkov is now already seeing signs of an imminent banking crisis.
35	24	Minor credit organizations that do not have the same access to cheap resources as state banks were forced to attract funds from the general population at high interest rates.
35	25	In response, state banks went on the warpath and began to reduce lending rates, continues the economist.
35	26	Minor credit organizations cannot offer loans with those same interest rates, otherwise they would have a negative interest margin.
35	27	If state banks do not forgo dumping, Russia will face a full-scale banking crisis, supposes Vasiliy Solodkov.
35	28	The economist considers the revocation of licenses of a number of banks in recent weeks to be a harbinger of a massive crash.
35	29	"State banks themselves will not be able to handle such a situation: the endowment insurance system was not initially designed to handle a systemic crisis," warns the head of the institute.
35	30	However, the growth of consumption will slow even without a non-payment crisis, they propose in the investment bank - due to the refusal to adjust the wages of government employees and military personnel pledged in the current version of the draft budget.
35	31	Partially, the blow on consumption will be softened by freezing the tariffs of natural monopolies (and, as a result, by reducing inflation).
35	32	But only partially: if investments do not grow (and there are no preconditions for that so far - see the reference), growth of consumption will nevertheless be slowed, they are confident at Goldman Sachs.
35	33	Vladimir Pantyushin from Barclays Capital so far sees no preconditions for the actualization of pessimistic scenarios.
35	34	"The main risk is still a drop in the price of oil," he says.
35	35	According to his assessment, Russia's economy will begin to contract at an oil price lower than 90 dollars per barrel.
35	36	In Goldman Sachs they have also noted that the Central Bank is so far unable to reduce interest rates in the economy.
35	37	A paradoxical picture is being observed: inflation decreased, but banks began to raise rates.
35	38	This could mean that they did not believe the Central Bank when it announced the transition to inflation targeting," said Clemens Grafe.
35	39	The interest rate policy of the Central Bank does not influence market rates, it influences only the rates of interbank lending.
35	40	"For the Central Bank, this is the collapse of all hope," assessed Clemens Grafe.
35	41	Money obtained at Central Bank auctions are not used by banks to credit the economy, but to manage their liquidity
35	42	As soon as the rate decreases, the exchange rate immediately changes, this means that funds attempt to escape to speculations against the ruble.
35	43	"Sooner or later, Central Bank will understand that this strategy does not work," said Mr. Grafe and recalled that the government plans to "free float" the ruble by the end of 2015.
35	44	However, they must either do this sooner, or raise the key rate of Central Bank (5.5%), he believes.
35	45	According to his assessment, the exchange rate of the ruble is currently artificially elevated by 10%.
35	46	The ruble has only one way out - to weaken, - concludes the expert.
35	47	But if Central Bank instills in financiers even a shadow of doubt that liquidation of the currency corridor is not part of the policy for weakening of the ruble, this could bring down the ruble much more strongly.


36	1	Snowden agreed to provide testimony on the wiretapping of Merkel
36	2	Bundestag deputy Hans-Christian Stroebele met with Edward Snowden in Moscow.
36	3	During the conversation a question arose, whether Snowden can be interrogated as a witness by the German Prosecutor's Office on the case of the possible wiretapping of the telephone of the German chancellor by U.S. intelligence agencies.
36	4	Snowden expressed willingness to provide the necessary testimony.
36	5	The meeting could take place either in Moscow or in Germany.
36	6	He clearly conveyed, - said Hans-Christian Stroebele, - that he knows quite a lot.
36	7	And despite the fact that the National Security Agency headed by Kieth Alexander has obstructed all of his movements, Snowden is willing to come to Germany.
36	8	However, first it is necessary to clearly define all conditions of his arrival. .
36	9	Meanwhile, American lawmakers are beginning to take measures in response to the scandal surrounding U.S. spy programs.
36	10	The Senate intelligence committee yesterday approved draft legislation introducing additional restrictions on the activity of the American electronic intelligence agency.


37	1	FAA: Air passengers can now use gadgets on planes (but not make cell phone calls)
37	2	Airline passengers will be able to use their electronic devices gate-to-gate to read, work, play games, watch movies and listen to music - but not talk on their cellphones - under much-anticipated new guidelines issued Thursday by the Federal Aviation Administration.
37	3	But passengers shouldn't expect changes to happen immediately.
37	4	How fast the change is implemented will vary by the airline, FAA Administrator Michael Huerta said at a news conference.
37	5	Airlines will have to show the FAA how their airplanes meet the new guidelines and that they've updating their flight crew training manuals and rules for stowing devices to reflect the new guidelines.
37	6	The FAA said it has already received plans from some airlines to expand the use of portable electronic devices on planes.
37	7	Delta and JetBlue were among the airliners who have already submitted plans.
37	8	"Depending on the condition of the plan, we could approve expanded use of electronic devices very soon," the FAA said in a statement.
37	9	Currently, passengers are required to turn off their smartphones, tablets and other devices once a plane's door closes.
37	10	They're not supposed to restart them until the planes reach 10,000 feet and the captain gives the go-ahead.
37	11	Passengers are supposed to turn their devices off again as the plane descends to land and not restart them until the plane is on the ground.
37	12	Under the new guidelines, airlines whose planes are properly protected from electronic interference may allow passengers to use the devices during takeoffs, landings and taxiing, the FAA said.
37	13	Most new airliners and other planes that have been modified so that passengers can use Wifi at higher altitudes are expected to meet the criteria.
37	14	Laura Glading, president of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, welcomed the changes.
37	15	"Once the new policy is safely implemented - and we're going to work closely with the carrier to do that - it will be a win-win," Glading said in a statement.
37	16	We're frankly tired of feeling like 'hall monitors' when it comes to this issue.
37	17	But connecting to the Internet to surf, exchange emails, text or download data will still be prohibited below 10,000 feet, the agency said.
37	18	Passengers will be told to switch their smartphones, tablets and other devices to airplane mode.
37	19	So, still no Words With Friends, the online Scrabble-type game that actor Alec Baldwin was playing on his smartphone in 2011 when he was famously booted off an American Airlines jet for refusing to turn off the device while the plane was parked at the gate.
37	20	And heavier devices such as laptops will continue to have to be stowed because of concern they might injure someone if they go flying around the cabin.
37	21	In-flight cellphone calls also will continue to be prohibited.
37	22	Regulatory authority over phone calls belongs to the Federal Communications Commission, not the FAA.
37	23	FAA may lift ban on some electronic devices during takeoff and landing
37	24	Last month, National Transportation Safety Board Mark Rosenker, a CBS News national transportation safety expert, said that cell phones are still considered a risk.
37	25	"Cell phones, that really is an issue, not just because potentially it could create interference with navigational devices, but we do know, according to the FCC, that it could interfere with cell phone towers when they're in the air," Rosenker said.
37	26	An industry advisory committee created by the FAA to examine the issue recommended last month that the government permit greater use of personal electronic devices.
37	27	Pressure has been building on the FAA in recent years to ease restrictions on their use.
37	28	Critics such as Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., contend there is no valid safety reason for the prohibitions.
37	29	The restrictions have also become increasingly difficult to enforce as use of the devices has become ubiquitous.
37	30	Some studies indicate as many as a third of passengers forget or ignore directions to turn off their devices.
37	31	The FAA began restricting passengers' use of electronic devices in 1966 in response to reports of interference with navigation and communications equipment when passengers began carrying FM radios, the high-tech gadgets of their day.
37	32	New airliners are far more reliant on electrical systems than previous generations of aircraft, but they are also designed and approved by the FAA to be resistant to electronic interference.
37	33	Airlines have been offering Wi-Fi use at cruising altitudes to passengers for several years.
37	34	Planes modified for Wi-Fi systems are also more resistant to interference.
37	35	The vast majority of airliners should qualify for greater electronic device use under the new guidelines, Huerta said.
37	36	Today's electronic devices generally emit much lower power radio transmissions than previous generations of devices.
37	37	E-readers, for example, emit only minimal transmissions when turning a page.
37	38	But transmissions are stronger when devices are downloading or sending data.
37	39	Among those pressing for a relaxation of restrictions on passengers' use of the devices has been Amazon.com.
37	40	In 2011, company officials loaded an airliner full of their Kindle e-readers and flew it around to test for problems but found none.
37	41	FAA advisory committee members expressed mixed feelings about whether use of the devices presents any risk.
37	42	Douglas Kidd of the National Association of Airline Passengers said he believes interference from the devices is genuine even if the risk is minimal.
37	43	Other committee members said there are only anecdotal reports from pilots to support that the devices can interfere with aircraft systems, and most of those reports are very old.
37	44	However, the committee recommended the FAA allow pilots to order passengers to shut off devices during instrument landings in low visibility.
37	45	A travel industry group welcomed the changes, calling them common-sense accommodations for a traveling public now bristling with technology.
37	46	"We're pleased the FAA recognizes that an enjoyable passenger experience is not incompatible with safety and security," said Roger Dow, CEO of the U.S. Travel Association.


38	1	Vilnius suspects Moscow in an attempt to slander the Lithuanian president
38	2	Russia intends to carry out informational provocations against high-ranking officials of Lithuania and countries of the Eastern partnership - such an announcement to the BNS agency was made in the department of state security of the republic (DGB).
38	3	Information about this was published on the DELFI portal.
38	4	According to the report, in particular Moscow intends to "slander" the president of Lithuania Dalia Grybauskaite and publish falsified documents supposedly found in a Russian state archive that concern facts from the biography of the Lithuanian leader.
38	5	According to an intelligence agency, preparation of the informational attack is led by the department of analysis of public processes of the directorate of the administration of the president of Russia concerning interregional and cultural relations with foreign countries.
38	6	The structure is headed by Evgeniy Umerenkov who repeatedly visited Lithuania and took part in a meeting of the Lithuanian People's Party.
38	7	Department employee V. Smirnov is also allegedly a participant of the operation.
38	8	As asserts the intelligence agency, Smirnov, under the cover of scientific work, regularly came to Lithuania until the end of 2012 and made contact with local politicians, political scientists and representatives of the media.
38	9	Now Smirnov has been barred entry into the territory of the country.
38	10	On the previous day the president of Lithuania Grybauskaite announced that she knows about the information attack being prepared against her.
38	11	According to her, the main reason is the successful chairmanship of Lithuania in the Council of the European Union and the "striving of the country toward energy independence"
38	12	The Lithuanian leader previously repeatedly criticized the actions of Russian authorities.
38	13	For example, she stated that in the Kremlin they treat Lithuania "without due respect".
38	14	Moreover, Grybauskaite accused the head of the RF Vladimir Putin of pushing "only demands" toward Lithuania.
38	15	Let us recall that in September Rospotrebnadzor suspended imports of Lithuanian milk into Russia.
38	16	It was reported that the quality of the products do not conform to sanitary and epidemiological norms.
38	17	At that time the leader of Lithuania declared that if Russia does not withdraw the ban, the administration of the country must prepare an address to the WTO.


39	1	New anti-nicotine vaccine could take the pleasure out of smoking
39	2	Scientists have developed an anti-nicotine vaccine that could take the pleasure out of smoking a cigarette.
39	3	A single dose of the vaccine was able to protect mice against nicotine addiction for life.
39	4	Further tests are needed before starting human trials, which would take several years, but Professor Ronald Crystal of Weill Cornell Medical College in New York said the early signs are good.
39	5	"We are very hopeful that this kind of vaccine strategy can finally help the millions of smokers who have tried to stop, exhausting all the methods on the market today, but find their nicotine addiction to be strong enough to overcome these current approaches," Prof Cornell said.
39	6	The new vaccine contains a harmless virus that has been engineered to carry the genetic information to make anti-nicotine antibodies.
39	7	The virus selectively infects liver cells, which then start to make a steady stream of the antibodies.
39	8	The antibodies hunt down any nicotine molecules in the bloodstream, neutralising them before they reached the brain, preventing a smoker from getting a nicotine hit.
39	9	In tests, vaccinated mice who were subsequently given nicotine continued with their normal activity.
39	10	But mice who had not been given the vaccine "chilled out," say the researchers, a sign that the nicotine had reached their brains.
39	11	The experiments are described in the journal Science Translational Medicine.
39	12	Previous tobacco vaccines failed because they contained antibodies.
39	13	The jabs had to be given so frequently to keep antibody levels topped up that they proved expensive and impractical.
39	14	But the cost of the new vaccine is likely to be far lower, because it turns liver cells into antibody factories.
39	15	Prof Crystal said that if a future human vaccine was completely safe it could be given to children before they were tempted to try a cigarette, preventing nicotine addiction.
39	16	But more likely it would be used by smokers to quit.
39	17	"They will know if they start smoking again, they will receive no pleasure from it due to the nicotine vaccine, and that can help them kick the habit," he said.
39	18	British scientists said the results were interesting but warned far more research was needed.


40	1	Pre-winter chores.
40	2	What needs to be done in the garden before the first frost
40	3	Among fungicides in the fall it is best to select copper-containing compounds, for example a 1% bordeaux mixture or the compounds Abiga-Pik, Oksikhom, Ordan, etc.


41	1	Frontier Airlines to charge for carry-on baggage
41	2	Frontier Airlines plans to charge up to $100 for passengers to store carry-on luggage on board their flight.
41	3	Frontier Airlines plans to start charging up to $100 for a carry-on bag and $2 for coffee or soda, although its announcement on Wednesday did say that passengers will get to keep the whole can.
41	4	The new carry-on fee is for bags in the overhead bin, so small bags under the seat will still be free.
41	5	Frontier said it will charge $25 if the fee is paid in advance, $100 if travelers wait to pay until they're at the gate.
41	6	Frontier spokeswoman Kate O'Malley said the $100 fee is to get travelers to take care of the charge in advance.
41	7	"We don't want to charge that," she said.
41	8	Airlines began charging for the first and second checked bags in 2008.
41	9	Passengers trying to avoid those fees have been stuffing as much as they can into carry-on baggage stashed in overhead bins, meaning those bins often run out of space.
41	10	Fees are one way to get passengers to bring less on board.
41	11	O'Malley said the new charge is not really about raising money.
41	12	It's about Frontier's most loyal customers making it very clear that finding overhead bin space has become increasingly difficult.
41	13	Passengers who buy their tickets on the airline's website won't have to pay.
41	14	That means one passenger in line at a Frontier gate might get to bring a bag on for free, while the next person in line might owe $100 for a similar bag.
41	15	O'Malley said Frontier's website and check-in procedures are being changed to make sure passengers know about the fee before they get to the gate.
41	16	Frontier's new carry-on fee won't start until summer, though a date hasn't been set.
41	17	Passengers often grumble about baggage charges and other fees, but airlines love them.
41	18	They argue that luggage costs money to handle, and passengers who want the service should pay for it.
41	19	Many on Wall Street view the addition of baggage fees as a sign that airlines are charging enough money to cover the cost of air travel after years of losses.
41	20	Most haven't touched carry-on bag fees, though.
41	21	Spirit Airlines Inc. started the first carry-on fee three years ago, and fellow discounter Allegiant Air later followed.
41	22	The only other airline with such a fee is Hungary's Wizz Air, said airline consultant Jay Sorensen, who closely tracks add-on fees.
41	23	He estimated in a December 2011 report that Spirit's carry-on fee brings in $50 million a year.
41	24	Sorensen, a former executive with Midwest Airlines, flew Spirit recently and wondered what he'd find at the gate as passengers encountered Spirit's unusual carry-on bag fee.
41	25	"The boarding process was the smoothest I had seen in my airline career," he said.
41	26	I was expecting to see gnashing of teeth and a fight breaking out at the gate.
41	27	The plane was full, he said, "and it boarded lickety-split."
41	28	Frontier is also following Spirit's $2 charge for coffee, tea, soda, or juice.
41	29	Frontier said passengers who get soda or juice can keep the whole can, and it will give coffee refills for free.
41	30	It will still give away water.
41	31	US Airways briefly tried charging for beverages in 2008 but backed down seven months later after passengers complained and no other major airline followed.
41	32	Frontier's move to charge the carry-on fee if passengers don't buy direct from the airline is its latest effort to steer customers toward its own website.
41	33	Airlines pay online travel sellers such as Orbitz $10 to $25 for each ticket sold.
41	34	That has given all airlines an incentive to steer passengers to buy directly from them instead of going through an online travel agency.
41	35	Frontier has gone the furthest in this area, though.
41	36	In September it began giving half as many frequent flier miles to customers who bought through an online travel agency.
41	37	On Wednesday it slashed the mileage award to 25 percent of the miles of the trip.
41	38	So, a 1,000 mile Frontier trip purchased from an online travel agency would earn 250 miles.
41	39	It also allows passengers to choose their seat in advance only if they buy directly from the Frontier website.
41	40	Frontier has a loyal base of customers in its home city of Denver, but its business is shrinking and losing money.
41	41	Revenue dropped 9 percent and its flying capacity shrank almost 13 percent in the first quarter, according to financial results released Wednesday by corporate parent Republic Airways Holdings Inc.
41	42	Republic has been trying to fix Frontier's finances as part of selling the airline.


42	1	Putin achieved impunity for his friend Assad
42	2	And now - news from across the ocean, and particularly - from Syria, where, as we became aware of today, Israel launched a strike against rockets of Russian manufacture, which, according to reports, were intended for "Hezbollah".
42	3	Today Syria fulfilled an important condition - destroy its production of chemical weapons by November 1.
42	4	This was done within the framework of an agreement reached through the mediation of Russia and allowing the U.S. to not conduct a military operation to which they came close this summer.
42	5	Our chief international correspondent Richard Engel will tell more about the weapons and about what all of this means for the Syrian president.
42	6	Washington declared that the Assad regime will be punished for this.
42	7	More than 1,400 civilians, including hundreds of children, perished in August from poisonous gas.
42	8	And the punishment came.
42	9	But not in the form of American bombings, but in the form of a deal arranged by Assad's friend - Vladimir Putin.
42	10	Syria will give up its chemical weapons by the middle of next year.
42	11	And today - a major milestone.
42	12	A group of international experts reported that Syria has disabled its declared factories producing chemical weapons.
42	13	A more long-term and difficult task is the destruction of tons of chemical weapons and its components.
42	14	As we understand, this is approximately a thousand tons.
42	15	Previously Washington said that Assad's days are numbered.
42	16	I think that Assad should resign.
42	17	The question is not if this will happen, but when it will happen.
42	18	He is no longer legitimate and must resign.
42	19	But Assad remains.
42	20	And feels even more confident.
42	21	His troops still use artillery, rockets and napalm.
42	22	His enemies are divided and poorly armed.
42	23	His people involuntarily abandon their homes, many are starving.
42	24	Some have to feed themselves with leaves and cats.
42	25	Many believe that Bashar Assad escaped punishment for mass murder.
42	26	They are calling the agreement on chemical weapons a diplomatic success, inspectors were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, and Assad himself gave the impression of a person willing to cooperate.
42	27	Today in Washington the U.S. ambassador in Syria had to answer difficult questions.
42	28	When a child dies from hunger, his mother is hardly comforted by the fact that they did not kill him using chemical weapons.
42	29	Assad for now is holding on.
42	30	And is exchanging weapons for power.


43	1	A Tomsk resident will work off 240 hours for an extremist clip on a social network
43	2	The Lenin district court of Tomsk sentenced to 240 hours of mandatory work a city resident who placed an extremist video clip on a social network, a representative of the press service of the district court reported to RIA Novosti on Friday.
43	3	According to the court, in March of 2013 the man placed on his page in a popular social network a video clip that was entered into the federal list of extremist materials.
43	4	In relation to him, a criminal case was initiated based on the article of the RF Criminal Code "Actions aimed at arousing hatred or animosity, as well as disparaging a person, committed publicly".
43	5	"The Lenin district court examined this case in a special procedure and found the man guilty of committing the above-cited crimes, assigning a punishment in the form of 240 hours of mandatory work," said the agency source.
43	6	She added that the man fully admitted his guilt.


44	1	Parents of Intersex Kids Can Pick 'Gender Undetermined'
44	2	Germany became the first European nation to recognize a third gender for babies born with ambiguous genitalia.
44	3	No longer will newborns be rigidly assigned to male or female.
44	4	The new law doesn't require parents to declare any gender for such children, allowing parents to declare gender "undetermined" or "unspecified" on their birth certificates.
44	5	The aim of the law was to take the pressure off parents who might make hasty decisions on sex-assignment surgery for newborns, and to fight discrimination against those who are intersex.
44	6	One intersex person, according to the BBC, said years later, "I am neither a man nor a woman."
44	7	I will remain the patchwork created by doctors, bruised and scarred.
44	8	An estimated one in 2,000 children born each year is neither boy nor girl.
44	9	They are intersex, part of a group of about 60 conditions that fall under the diagnosis of disorders of sexual development, an umbrella term for those with atypical chromosomes, gonads (ovaries or testes), or unusually developed genitalia.
44	10	Wallis Simpson may have been intersex.
44	11	Gender identification is still not well understood, but most experts in the United States say that when sex cannot be determined, it's better to use the best available information to assign it then to wait and monitor the child's psychological and physical development before undertaking surgery, if at all.
44	12	New York City psychiatrist Dr. Jack Drescher, who specializes in issues of gender identification, said the new German law "sounds like a good thing."
44	13	Intersex children pose ethical dilemma.
44	14	"Some people have life-endangering conditions that require surgery, but most kids do not," he said.
44	15	You can make a gender assignment without surgery, and then see how identity develops.
44	16	The science of knowing how a child will develop any gender identity is not very accurate.
44	17	Nobody can answer the questions about why this happens.
44	18	It's like the mystery of why people are gay.
44	19	A report filed to the European Commission in 2011 described intersex people as different from transsexual or transgender people, as their status is not gender related but instead relates to their biological makeup, which is neither exclusively male nor exclusively female, but is typical of both at once or not clearly defined as either.
44	20	These features can manifest themselves in secondary sexual characteristics, such as muscle mass, hair distribution, breasts and stature; primary sexual characteristics such as reproductive organs and genitalia; or in chromosomal structures and hormones.
44	21	The report also gives an overview of the discrimination faced by intersex and transgender people in the realm of employment, as well as levels of harassment, violence and bias crimes.
44	22	Gender nonconforming boys now have special camp.
44	23	Already, Australia and Nepal allow adults to mark male, female or a "third gender" on their official documents.
44	24	In June, a 52-year-old Australian, Norrie May-Welby, became the world's first recognized "genderless" person after winning a legal appeal to keep an "unspecified" gender status for life.
44	25	German passports will have a third designation other than M or F -- X, for intersex, according to the Interior Ministry.
44	26	In neighboring France, gender issues are still controversial, according to a news report on France 24.
44	27	In 2011, dozens of French lawmakers from that strongly Catholic country signed a petition for "gender theory" to be withdrawn from school textbooks.
44	28	The U.S. website Catholic Online has also opposed the German law, writing that "as the world is being dragged into a new state, where gender is a choice, but sexual activity is not, we reverse two more pillars of civilization."
44	29	One Maryland mother of a newborn also told the Baby Zone that she would rather see babies assigned gender at birth.
44	30	"Parenting is stressful enough without extra limitations, especially if you don't know the gender of your child," she told the parenting website.
44	31	Children need stability and certainty.
44	32	Historically, children born with both male and female genitalia were called hermaphrodites, named for the handsome Greek god who had dual sexuality.
44	33	And as little as a decade ago, the medical community thought of gender as a slate that could be erased and then redrawn.
44	34	But now, many are challenging the ethical basis of surgery, knowing that gender identity is complex, and doctors can sometimes get it wrong, not knowing how a child will feel about their gender assignment when they grow up.
44	35	"Back in the middle of the 20th century, it was called a 'psychiatric emergency,'" said Drescher.
44	36	When these kids were born, you didn't call the psychiatrist, you called a surgeon.
44	37	The prevailing theory on how to treat children with ambiguous genitalia was put forward by Dr. John Money at Johns Hopkins University, who held that gender was malleable.
44	38	He coined the term "gender identity" and argued that social and environmental cues -- how parents raised a child -- interacted with a child's genes and hormones to shape whether the person identified as male or female.
44	39	But in one 1966 case, known as "John/Joan," his theories became controversial.
44	40	He advised the parents of a boy whose penis had been severed in a botched circumcision to have the child fully castrated, removing his testicles, as well, and to raise him as a girl.
44	41	"Money presented the case as a successful case of transition, but it was not," said Drescher.
44	42	When the boy was around 15, he transitioned back to a boy and married a woman.
44	43	But at 38, he committed suicide.
44	44	Drescher said that now some doctors are still "practicing that model."
44	45	But in the 1990s, with the advent of the Internet, survivors of these gender surgeries have come forward "not happy with the outcome."
44	46	Such was the case with Jim Bruce, a 36-year-old writer from Montana, who was born with XY male chromosomes but ambiguous genitals.
44	47	Doctors couldn't be sure if he had a large clitoris or a small penis and were convinced he could never live a "satisfactory life" as a man.
44	48	So shortly after his birth in 1976, Bruce's external organ and testes were surgically removed and he was raised as a girl.
44	49	He was given female hormones at age 12.
44	50	"I knew that I wasn't a girl," he told ABCNews.com.
44	51	I was unhappy, but it was really difficult to ask questions.
44	52	At 18, he was set for a vaginoplasty.
44	53	But depressed and knowing something was wrong, he demanded medical records.
44	54	What he found out was horrifying.
44	55	I was sterilized at birth -- and no one ever told me.
44	56	Bruce was born with a DSD that prevented his body from producing enough testosterone to properly develop his genitals.
44	57	After learning the truth, he changed back to a man, taking testosterone shots and having his breasts removed.
44	58	Surgery rendered him infertile.
44	59	Today, he advocates for others in an organization called the Interface Project, trying to normalize perceptions of those who are intersex.
44	60	But Anne Tamar-Mattis, executive director for California-based legal group Advocates for Informed Choice, worries that the German law "invites labeling and stigma."
44	61	"A lot of activists are concerned that what the German rule will do is encourage parents to make quick decisions and give the child an 'undetermined,'" she said.
44	62	We are afraid it will encourage intervention.
44	63	We think a better process is assigning male or female sex, then waiting.
44	64	But we haven't seen how the law will play out, so all we can do is speculate.
44	65	Tamar-Mattis said that her organization supports the Australian law because "it allows adults to choose to be recognized in a third gender."
44	66	"Adults should be able to make their own decisions about legal gender," she said.
44	67	German law is about assigning it at birth.
44	68	That is not a battle young children should have to take up at this point.
44	69	When they are grown, they can make decisions about their own bodies.
44	70	But Dr. Arlene Baratz, a Pittsburgh breast radiologist who has a daughter with a disorder of sexual development and helps hundreds of others in a support group, said the German law will "empower" both parents and children.
44	71	Baratz's daughter Katie was born with male chromosomes, but has a DSD called complete androgen insensitivity syndrome.
44	72	Because her androgen receptors are faulty, Katie developed female characteristics.
44	73	She has a vagina, but no uterus or ovaries.
44	74	Now at 29, Katie is married and at the University of Pennsylvania, a resident in child psychiatry.
44	75	Though she is infertile, she hopes to become a parent through adoption or gestational surrogacy.
44	76	"The law gives parents some space not to have to rush into making decisions themselves," said Baratz.
44	77	It gives them the time to do some tests and figure it out and a period of time before they write 'male' or 'female.'
44	78	This way, you are OK -- raise the child, love the child.
44	79	You have a wonderful baby and enjoy the fun.
44	80	We don't have to rush into surgery that is irreversible.
44	81	"It brings the children into the decision and takes away the anxiety that motivates parents because they don't feel they are doing the right thing," she said.
44	82	Ultimately, the child will decide which sex he or she feels more comfortable with -- and that's a wonderful thing.
44	83	It empowers children to make the decision for themselves.


45	1	U.S. Secretary of State: intelligence agencies at times "went too far" when gathering data
45	2	U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry admitted that when gathering data and wiretapping, American intelligence agencies at times "went too far", nonetheless the politician noted that information about the wiretaps of 70 million people that emerged in the media does not reflect reality.
45	3	I assure you that innocent people did not suffer during this process, but an attempt to gather information did exist.
45	4	Yes, in some cases it went too far and was legally inappropriate.
45	5	I acknowledge it, as the president also acknowledges... and we will see to it that this does not happen in the future, the AFP cites the secretary of state.


46	1	As crowds of horse-showing experts gathered in Cardiff to battle it out for Horse of the Year, they knew the competition would be tough.
46	2	But nobody was quite ready for three-year-old Fenton Kirkland.
46	3	Not yet in school and just months on from taking his first steps, the toddler and his pet Shetland pony Toffee trotted through the three rounds with ease to take the top prize - leaving their 30 adult opponents trailing behind.
46	4	The inseparable pair - who are the same height - were commended for appearance, behaviour and style at the annual contest run by Sunnybank Equestrian Centre, in Rudry near Cardiff.
46	5	Taking to the stage against men and women in smart bowler hats, he tipped his flat cap at a jaunty angle and paraded two-year-old Toffee around the ring.
46	6	Fenton was lauded by judges for natural handling skills well beyond his years.
46	7	And Toffee received top marks for his appearance and personality.
46	8	Fenton was given Toffee as a third birthday present last March and has practised with the Shetland pony every day since.
46	9	His mother Donna, 30, said: "Fenton and Toffee are a great double act."
46	10	They were up against all comers but the two of them walked off with the gold cup and rosette.
46	11	It was only the second time he had competed with Toffee and we were all ecstatic when he won.
46	12	Complete strangers in the arena all thought he was so phenomenal they wanted photos taken with him.
46	13	The youngster, from the village of Nantyglo, near Ebbw Vale, South Wales, is following in the footsteps of his aunt Sharon Howells, who has been showing horses for more than 10 years.
46	14	Mrs Howells said: "The whole place was electric and everybody was cheering and clapping."
46	15	He was running on sand down the full length of the arena and even though he looked so tiny he did a marvellous job.
46	16	Fenton is animal mad - he loves horses, tractors and farms and has got two chickens which he looks after.
46	17	The way he has started he'll be at the Horse of the Year show before long - and I'm sure he'll do well.
46	18	A spokesman for the annual horse show said: "Fenton is only three but he knows how to handle his pony."
46	19	They are a great team together.
46	20	The judges marked Fenton and Toffee on how well they were turned out and the way they presented in the show ring.
46	21	They look for good teamwork between the pony and the handler - Fenton and Toffee were the best in the ring.
46	22	I'm sure Fenton was helped by his cute clothes, he really looked the part.


47	1	A commuter bus flipped over in Altai.
47	2	A PAZ commuter bus flipped over in the Rubtsovsky district of Altai Territory.
47	3	As a result of the road accident, according to updated data, 13 people were injured, they reported in the regional administration of the Emergency Ministry.
47	4	Previously law enforcement agencies of the region reported 10 injured.
47	5	According to agency information, the accident occurred around 9 o'clock in the morning local time on the Novonikolaevka - Vishnevka highway 1 kilometer from Novonikolaevka.
47	6	12 passengers and a driver were in the bus traveling from Rubtsovsk to Vishnevka, all incurred injuries of various severity and have been hospitalized.
47	7	Eleven of the injured were taken to Rubtsovsk City Hospital No.1, two people were hospitalized in the Rubtsovsk Central Regional Hospital.


48	1	Court blocks ruling on NYPD stop-and-frisk policy
48	2	A federal appeals court on Thursday blocked a judge's order requiring changes to the New York Police Department's stop-and-frisk program and removed the judge from the case.
48	3	The 2nd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said the decisions of Judge Shira Scheindlin will be stayed pending the outcome of an appeal by the city.
48	4	The judge had ruled in August the city violated the Constitution in the way it carried out its program of stopping and questioning people.
48	5	The city appealed her findings and her remedial orders, including a decision to assign a monitor to help the police department changes its policy and training program associated with it.
48	6	The appeals court heard arguments Tuesday on the requested stay.
48	7	The appeals court said the judge needed to be removed from the case because she ran afoul of the code of conduct for U.S. judges by compromising the necessity for a judge to avoid the appearance of partiality in part because of a series of media interviews and public statements responding publicly to criticism of the court.
48	8	The judge had ruled that police officers violated the civil rights of tens of thousands of people by wrongly targeting black and Hispanic men with its stop-and-frisk program.
48	9	She appointed an outside monitor to oversee major changes, including reforms in policies, training and supervision, and she ordered a pilot program to test body-worn cameras in some precincts where most stops occur.
48	10	In August, New York City agreed to end the practice of storing the names and addresses of people whose cases are dismissed after a police stop.
48	11	An oral argument on the city's appeal is scheduled for sometime after March 14, 2014.
48	12	The stop-and-frisk tactic has been criticized by a number of civil rights advocates.
48	13	Stop-and-frisk has been around for decades in some form, but recorded stops increased dramatically under the administration of independent Mayor Michael Bloomberg to an all-time high in 2011 of 684,330, mostly of black and Hispanic men.
48	14	A lawsuit was filed in 2004 by four men, all minorities, and became a class action case.
48	15	Supporters of changes to the NYPD's stop-and-frisk program say the changes will end unfair practices, will mold a more trusted and effective police force and can affect how other police departments use the policy.
48	16	Opponents say the changes would lower police morale but not crime, waste money and not solve a broader problem of a police force under pressure after shrinking by thousands of officers during the last decade.
48	17	The judge noted she wasn't putting an end to the stop-and-frisk practice, which is constitutional, but was reforming the way the NYPD implemented its stops.


49	1	Azarov promised Ukrainians a collapse of prices for goods after the signing of the association with the European Union
49	2	The prime minister of Ukraine Nikolai Azarov is convinced that prices in the country will significantly decrease after the country signs the association agreement with the European Union.
49	3	He stated this while chatting with readers of his page on Facebook.
49	4	I can definitely say that prices are determined by a large number of factors, among which are, among others, customs payments.
49	5	So, after the signing of the agreement and the enactment of the provision on the free trade zone, the level of customs duties on imports of goods from the EU will significantly decrease.
49	6	And this will mean that prices should also decrease.
49	7	"This is in respect to goods that come from countries of the EU," wrote Azarov.
49	8	In respect to other goods, the impact of the agreement on prices will not be so direct, it will be mediated.
49	9	But, nevertheless, there should not be an increase in prices there either.
49	10	Therefore, the messages on billboards that have recently appeared in our country quite a lot, saying the association with the EU is a rise in prices, this is not entirely true, or if we speak more accurately - entirely not true," summarized Azarov.


50	1	$325m rescue package for Tassie health
50	2	The Federal Government insists a $325 million rescue package for Tasmania's ailing health system has tough conditions attached that will ensure the State Government can't waste the funds.
50	3	Federal Health Minister Tanya Plibersek has announced the Commonwealth is taking "urgent action" to head off a crisis caused by the island state's aging population, higher rates of chronic disease and system constraints.
50	4	The funding, over four years, was decided after government consultations with Tasmanian independent MP Andrew Wilkie.
50	5	"The Government has come up with an emergency rescue package we believe will address the unique challenges faced by the state," Ms Plibersek said today.
50	6	The $325 million package includes a $31 million elective surgery blitz.
50	7	An additional 2600 operations including orthopedic and cataract surgery will help clear a backlog.
50	8	There's also money for walk-in clinics in Hobart and Launceston, better after-hospital care, medical specialist training, mental health services and the rollout of personal electronic health record systems in local hospitals.
50	9	"These investments respond to the ideas that front-line clinicians have told me will be the best ways to tend to Tasmania's health system," Ms Plibersek said.
50	10	The minister insisted the Tasmanian Government would face a strict reporting and accountability regime.
50	11	The state would have to maintain current funding levels in order to receive Commonwealth cash and report monthly on where it was spending the extra funds.
50	12	A three-person commission will be set up to ensure the state is delivering services as effectively and efficiently as possible.
50	13	Mr Wilkie today said the $325 million would count for little "unless it's followed by genuine reform to put Tasmania's public health system on a more sustainable footing."
50	14	He nevertheless praised the Government for responding to his request for urgent assistance which he first raised with the Prime Minister at the beginning of May.
50	15	"I'm hopeful the federal assistance package will go a long way towards taking the state's public health system off the critical list," Mr Wilkie said.
50	16	According to the State Government these additional elective procedures will largely reverse the recent cuts.
50	17	But federal Opposition health spokesman Peter Dutton believes today's announcement is a "band-aid solution."
50	18	"The reason we are here is that the Labor State Government ripped $430 million out of its health system," he told ABC TV.
50	19	You can't have a state government ripping out almost half-a-billion dollars and the Commonwealth put in $300 million and pretend it's a good news day.
50	20	Mr Dutton called on Ms Plibersek to guarantee that not one dollar out of the rescue package would be spent on additional bureaucracy.


51	1	An Obama voter's cry of despair
51	2	I voted for President Obama twice, sharing hope in possibility of change
51	3	He says Obama has had worthy efforts thwarted by GOP obstructionism
51	4	Obstructionism can't excuse Obamacare website woes, drone attacks
51	5	Obama's 2008 campaign memoir is a sad reminder of what might have been
51	6	Nathaniel P. Morris is a second-year student at Harvard Medical School.
51	7	I'm reading a terribly sad book these days.
51	8	It's a book that I thought would uplift me during the doldrums of second-year medical school, and renew in me a sense of hope.
51	9	It's called "The Audacity to Win," and it's a memoir of Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign.
51	10	When I'm finished with my patient write-ups at night and get into bed, the book returns me to a time when politics inspired millions and speeches could take your breath away.
51	11	The election turned out to be a landslide, and news anchors paused to reflect on the historic nature of the hour.
51	12	My classmates cried with joy, and my parents saved every newspaper they could find.
51	13	A young team of visionaries was headed for the White House, and the nation was ready for change.
51	14	During Obama's transition to office in 2008, he had an 82% approval rating.
51	15	And then I close the book.
51	16	Cutting to the present is a rude awakening, like snapping out of a dream.
51	17	It's hard to remember those days of optimism -- they seem a distant memory, a sad reminder of opportunities gone by.
51	18	Change indeed happened, in the years since I cast my first ballot.
51	19	It was simply nothing I could have imagined.
51	20	I credit Obama with great and varied accomplishments, from the passage of the Affordable Care Act to our military exit from Iraq, the end of "don't ask don't tell," to the killing of Osama bin Laden.
51	21	Moreover, I believe that partisan obstructionism has upended too many efforts to push our nation forward: immigration reform, a public option for health care, and closing the base at Guantanamo Bay, among others.
51	22	But, after the countless times in which I have found myself defending the Obama administration to colleagues and peers, I've reached a limit to the explanations that I can provide.
51	23	I've reached a point of political despair.
51	24	Republican obstructionism cannot explain allowing the bugging of foreign leaders, nor having drones strike innocent children overseas.
51	25	It cannot explain having the National Security Agency collect data on the private lives of Americans, nor prosecuting whistle-blowers who reveal government wrongdoing.
51	26	It cannot account for assassinating Anwar al-Awlaki, an American citizen, without a trial, nor shirking public funding and spending limits during presidential campaigns.
51	27	It cannot justify the findings of a report that says the White House's efforts to silence the media are the "most aggressive ... since the Nixon Administration."
51	28	And, most recently, it cannot excuse the failure to design a simple website more than three years since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law.
51	29	I don't know if this is what I should have expected.
51	30	If, at 18 years old, I was supposed to figure out that governance may contradict the political campaigns that precede it.
51	31	Obviously, elective office isn't a predictable course, as the opposing political party and random events, such as the Newtown massacre, will shape our public conversation.
51	32	Yet, of all of the examples that I have listed above, they largely seem to be of the administration's own choosing.
51	33	That is what troubles me most of all.
51	34	I voted for Obama again in 2012, but not because I was excited by his candidacy.
51	35	Mitt Romney presented a confusing and unrefined alternative who could not seem to lock down his policies or his positions.
51	36	I felt that a second term for Obama, free from the pressures of future elections, would fulfill the hope that we had heard of for so long.
51	37	Still, as Obama's approval rating sank below 45% this week, returning to 2008 through that book has become that much harder.
51	38	It makes me yearn for the many promises that disappeared.
51	39	This week I was reading the portion of the book describing how Obama suffered a huge loss to Clinton in the Pennsylvania primary.
51	40	At a post-mortem campaign meeting, he told his staff that they needed to get back on track and stay true to the purpose of their cause.
51	41	"I want us to get our mojo back," he said.
51	42	We've got to remember who we are.'
51	43	It's five years later, Mr. President, and I couldn't agree with you more.
51	44	The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Nathaniel Morris.


52	1	Egypt swears in first freely elected president
52	2	Mohamed Morsi takes the oath of office but his day of triumph is unlikely to mark end of political strife in Egypt.
52	3	ISLAMIST Mohamed Morsi promised a "new Egypt" as he took the oath of office to become the country's first freely elected president, succeeding Hosni Mubarak who was ousted 16 months ago.
52	4	At his inauguration before the Supreme Constitutional Court, Morsi also became the Arab world's first freely elected Islamist president and Egypt's fifth head of state since the overthrow of the monarchy some 60 years ago.
52	5	He took the oath before the court's 18 black-robed judges in its Nile-side seat built to resemble an ancient Egyptian temple.
52	6	"We aspire to a better tomorrow, a new Egypt and a second republic," Morsi said during a solemn ceremony shown live on state television.
52	7	"Today, the Egyptian people laid the foundation of a new life - absolute freedom, a genuine democracy and stability," said Morsi, a 60-year-old US-trained engineer from the Muslim Brotherhood, a fundamentalist group that has spent most of the 84 years since its inception as an outlawed organisation harshly targeted by successive governments.
52	8	Hundreds of soldiers and policemen guarded the building as Morsi arrived shortly after 11am local time in a small motorcade.
52	9	Only several hundred supporters gathered outside the court to cheer the new president and, in a departure from the presidential pomp of the Mubarak years, traffic was only briefly halted to allow his motorcade through on the usually busy road linking the city centre with its southern suburbs.
52	10	Derided as the Brotherhood's uncharismatic "spare tyre," his personal prestige has surged since his victory and his delivery of a Friday speech that tried to present him as a candidate not just of Islamists but of all those who want to complete the work of the 2011 uprising against the authoritarian Mubarak.
52	11	"Egypt today is a civil, national, constitutional and modern state," Morsi, wearing a blue business suit and a red tie, told the judges in the wood-panelled chamber where he took the oath of office.
52	12	Morsi later travelled to Cairo University where he was to make his inauguration address.
52	13	He was given an official welcome by an army band that played the national anthem as he stood to attention.
52	14	Military ruler Field Marshal Hussein Tantawi was in attendance.
52	15	His arrival was greeted with chants of, "The army and the people are one hand," from the hundreds gathered in the university's main lecture room.
52	16	Established in 1908 as a bastion of secular education, Cairo University later became a stronghold of Islamist student groups in the 1970s.
52	17	Morsi took a symbolic oath on Friday in Tahrir Square, birthplace of the uprising that ended Mubarak's authoritarian rule last year, and vowed to reclaim presidential powers stripped from his office by the military council that took over from the ousted leader.
52	18	But by agreeing to take the official oath before the court, rather than before parliament as is customary, he is bowing to the military's will in an indication that the contest for power will continue.
52	19	Morsi's speech in Tahrir Square was filled with dramatic populist gestures.


53	1	Schools urged to focus more on maths, spelling and grammar
53	2	English literature courses will require pupils to study at least one Shakespeare play, a 19th century novel, Romantic poetry and contemporary British fiction from 1914 onwards.
53	3	The exam will also feature "unseen texts" to encourage wider reading;
53	4	A combined English literature and language course will be scrapped.
53	5	From 2015, pupils will be required to take a standalone GCSE in language, with strong incentives to choose English literature as a separate qualification.
53	6	The Department for Education is due to release the new syllabuses in English and maths tomorrow - the first subjects to undergo a radical overhaul.
53	7	It will make changes in other core subjects next year.
53	8	In a separate move, Ofqual, the exams regulator, will unveil a shake-up of the structure of GCSEs, with a new grading system and less coursework.
53	9	Speaking in the summer, Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, said there was a "widespread consensus that we need to reform our examination system to restore public confidence," insisting GCSEs would be "more challenging, more ambitious and more rigorous."
53	10	Studies show that English schools devote less time to maths - 116 hours a year or three hours a week during term time - than in most countries.
53	11	By comparison, Australian schools provide an average of 143 hours a year and pupils do around 138 hours in Singapore.
53	12	While there will be no formal requirement to devote more of the timetable to maths, Coalition sources said the extensive maths GCSE - combined with more weighting for the subject in league tables - was likely to encourage schools to provide extra teaching.
53	13	The syllabus will place a greater focus on "real world problems," including financial mathematics.


54	1	Football - a cause for discord?
54	2	In the State Duma as part of "Open Tribune", politicians and experts spoke about how to maintain national peace in Russia.
54	3	Among the proposals, the following was heard: ban football in the Northern Caucasus because from this game comes nothing but scandals and discord.
54	4	Speaker Sergei Naryshkin recalled the recent events in Biryulevo and said that in order to reduce the "degree of tension in society" politicians and mass media must be proper in statements.
54	5	Probably he had in mind the recent scandal with Vladimir Zhirinovsky, who in one telecast threatened to enclose the Caucasus with barbed wire if they did not want to limit the birth rate there...
54	6	All speakers also talked about measures to regulate migration from CIS countries, and on measures to harmonize relations between peoples inhabiting Russia, which added confusion to the discussion.
54	7	Maksim Grigoryev stated that the events in Biryulevo are a "model conflict, which could have been predicted", but "here too many people and authorities are responsible for these issues", and with seven nannies the child loses an eye.
54	8	The concept of multiculturalism, which Europe practiced a long time in relation to migrants, according to the social activist, has broken down, and one need to find own way.
54	9	The historian Yuriy Petrov entrusted great hopes on a new unitary history book.
54	10	"It is also necessary to create a handbook on the cultural history of peoples of the country, so that high schoolers in Tatarstan know what kind of people live in Dagestan, and vice versa," he said.
54	11	Gennady Zyuganov suggested introducing criminal liability for "appeals to dismember Russia": "If in the U.S. you say on the radio that it is necessary to give Alaska back to Russia, then they will arrest you and give you 20 years in prison!"
54	12	Vladimir Zhirinovsky tried very hard to "not incite".
54	13	As usual, he blamed everything on journalists, who bring out painful and incisive national problems into public discussion: "In the heat of polemics one could say anything!"
54	14	The leader of the fraction "United Russia" Vladimir Vasilyev instantly recommended journalists to conclude a "charter" and agree to conduct conversations on this topic carefully, and then politicians can also undertake the same responsibilities.
54	15	We have adopted about 30 laws that regulate migration, and the procedure overall has been established, stated Mr. Vasilyev.
54	16	As an example he cited the law that makes regional and municipal authorities responsible for interethnic peace on their territory.
54	17	But Lyudmila Andrichenko did not share the enthusiasm regarding this law: it does not contain "clear representations about what adaptation of migrants is, about its mechanisms and limits.
54	18	This means that subjects will interpret the scope of those authorities in different ways.
54	19	Furthermore, municipalities do not have the staff necessary to resolve so many complex issues, no resources, and the center will not give them the methodological recommendations that they could utilize...
54	20	The head of the Duma Committee on Ethnic Matters Gadjimet Safaraliev proposed creating a special department with the formidable name "Ministry of National Security", which would engage in issues of national politics.
54	21	But Valeriy Tishkov, who in the 90's headed a similar department that was subsequently abolished, opposed.
54	22	It is sufficient to have a special person on the federal level, "a minister without a briefcase" who you can call upon if necessary.
54	23	"We walk on the edge, shells are exploding nearby, it is very important for representatives of various ethnicities and religions to oppose provocations together, and this work must receive proper informational support," said the representative of Russian Orthodox Church for public relations Vsevolod Chaplin.
54	24	According to him, there should be no neutrality of the government in relation to dangerous ideologies, including religious.
54	25	Here Oleg Nilov diverted the discussion to an unexpected course: "It is hard to find more talented people than in Chechnya or Dagestan, but they are pushed the wrong way, down the wrong road," he said.
54	26	"The wrong road" is the development of football: "Here an entire crowd beats up a footballer, there they burn flags, there comrades throw rocks at each other...
54	27	Maybe we don't need such football?
54	28	There is another kind of sport - it's called rugby...
54	29	"They will have no equal in this type of sport!" the Just Russia party member said heatedly.
54	30	No one will play rugby in the Caucasus! - instantly intervened Mr. Zhirinovsky.
54	31	You offer them curling too!
54	32	Need to know national specifics, that's the same as offering a "Zaporozhets" to a Georgian"...
54	33	In Yaroslavl representatives of the Moscow club distinguished themselves with wild behavior in the stands - during a game with a local club.
54	34	We will have to ban football throughout the country...


55	1	NSA revelations boost corporate paranoia about state surveillance
55	2	On a mild day in late August a German police helicopter buzzed low over the US consulate in Frankfurt, the financial capital of Germany.
55	3	On the instruction of the Office for the Protection of the Constitution (BfV), Germany's domestic intelligence agency, its mission was to photograph the rooftop of the US outpost, which is located less than 5km from the European Central Bank and Bundesbank.
55	4	German media say the BfV hoped to identify the presence of listening antennas and the action prompted an exchange between the US and the German foreign ministry in Berlin.
55	5	James Clapper, US Director of National Intelligence, insisted again in September that the US does not use foreign intelligence capabilities "to steal the trade secrets of foreign companies on behalf of US companies to enhance their international competitiveness or increase their bottom line."
55	6	But ever since Edward Snowden, the contractor turned whistleblower, began releasing his treasure trove of US surveillance secrets, European governments and business leaders are no longer sure whether to take the director at his word.
55	7	Reports that the US National Security Agency spied on Brazilian oil company Petrobras and gained access to data held by US cloud providers including Google and Yahoo have ratcheted corporate paranoia about state surveillance to new highs.
55	8	The final straw came when it was revealed that Chancellor Angela Merkel's phone had been bugged, possibly for about a decade.
55	9	If Europe's most powerful person can be targeted, then surely business leaders are also potential targets.
55	10	Snowden has made transparent the intensive collaboration between US intelligence services and companies.
55	11	I think it's conceivable that these data are used for mutual benefit.
55	12	"Germany must wake up," says Oliver Grün, president of BITMi, which represents small and medium sized German IT companies.
55	13	German companies believe the US now poses almost as big a risk as China when it comes to industrial espionage and data theft, according to a survey published in July by EY, the consultancy.
55	14	In all the documentation leaked by Mr Snowden, there has, however, been no evidence to date that the US has passed on foreign companies' trade secrets to its own companies.
55	15	Politicians have expressed concern that the EU lacks certain IT and internet capabilities and should strive to reduce its dependence on the US.
55	16	Business leaders are sceptical about this.
55	17	Someone in the German parliament says we should build a German Google.
55	18	I can only shut my eyes and slowly open them again...
55	19	"That's not the way," Hasso Plattner, chairman of German business software company SAP, says.
55	20	If one wanted a strong European IT industry, then one shouldn't have let it die out 20 years ago.
55	21	Everything is subsidised in Germany, from coal, to cars and farmers.
55	22	Everything but the IT industry.
55	23	Still, the reach and technical sophistication of US spy agencies exposed by the Snowden revelations have come as a shock to some companies who previously thought the biggest surveillance risk was posed by China.
55	24	A big shift is occurring in cloud computing where European executives have become more aware that data stored in the US is subject to that jurisdiction and therefore potentially vulnerable.
55	25	According to a survey carried out by the Cloud Security Alliance, a trade body, some 10 per cent of non-US members cancelled plans to use a US-based cloud provider after revelations about the US Prism data mining programme.
55	26	Jim Snabe, co-chief executive at SAP, says: "We see a new question from customers that didn't come up a year ago - which is where is my data stored and can you guarantee that it stays physically in that jurisdiction."
55	27	Many German executives argue that the latest reports are simply confirmation of what they already knew: that powerful states want to steal their most prized secrets and these data must therefore be guarded at all costs.
55	28	That economic spying takes place is not a surprise.
55	29	It has always taken place.
55	30	"This has been a topic for many years and hasn't fundamentally changed through the current discussion," says Kurt Bock, chief executive of chemical maker BASF.
55	31	The Americans spy on us on the commercial and industrial level as we spy on them too, because it is in the national interest to defend our businesses.
55	32	Corporate leaders are not generally keen to boast about the countermeasures they have taken, in case this hands an advantage to an attacker.
55	33	For large companies, the message has long since been drummed home that picking up a free USB stick at a trade fair, or leaving a laptop unguarded in a hotel room are unwise, to say the least.
55	34	Ulrich Hackenberg, board member at carmaker Audi, says it has been standard practice for years for mobile phones to be collected before board meetings so they cannot be used as remote listening devices.
55	35	Germany's BfV advises executives to consider using simple prepaid mobiles when on foreign trips because of the risk that smart phones are compromised.
55	36	The prepaid mobiles are then thrown away afterwards.
55	37	However, there is concern that small and medium-sized companies remain vulnerable to hacking and surveillance.
55	38	In Germany, many of these companies are global market leaders in their particular niche.
55	39	"Small and medium sized companies often lack the experience, personnel and financial resources to protect corporate secrets effectively against unauthorised access," the BfV warns in a report.
55	40	The US warns its own companies about economic espionage by other countries.
55	41	The US National Intelligence Estimate in February named France alongside Russia and Israel in a second tier of offenders who engage in hacking for economic intelligence, behind China, according to The Washington Post.
55	42	A board member at a German blue-chip company concurred that when it comes to economic espionage, "the French are the worst."
55	43	Bernard Squarcini, former head of the French internal intelligence agency DCRI, was quoted in an interview this month as saying: "The services know perfectly well that all countries, even as they co-operate in the antiterrorist fight, spy on their allies."


56	1	The Los Angeles International Airport was evacuated due to gunfire in one of its terminals.
56	2	An unidentified man opened fire in the third terminal at 09:30 local time on Friday, November 1 (20:30 Moscow time).
56	3	Security evacuated employees and passengers of the second and third terminals.
56	4	According to preliminary data, the man directed fire from a high-powered rifle.
56	5	Several people, including an employee of the U.S. transportation security administration, were injured.
56	6	Police returned fire and detained the perpetrator.
56	7	He is slightly wounded.


57	1	Tripodi denies being influenced by Obeid
57	2	Former NSW Labor minister Joe Tripodi will be investigated by the state's corruption watchdog.
57	3	Former NSW minister Joe Tripodi has denied changing maritime leases policy at the request of his political mentor Eddie Obeid, who had hidden interests in three properties on government-controlled land.
57	4	The Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) on Friday widened its inquiry into whether Mr Obeid lobbied several state ministers to have leases at Circular Quay, where the Obeids owned two restaurants and a cafe, renewed without going to tender after their expiration in August 2005.
57	5	It's now investigating allegations Mr Tripodi knew of Mr Obeid's secret interest in the properties, after evidence given by Mr Tripodi's former deputy chief of staff, Lynne Ashpole, on Thursday.
57	6	During years of discussions starting in 2005 the government had been pushing for the leases to go to public tender.
57	7	The lessees were against this and also wanted longer terms.
57	8	In 2009 leases for the Circular Quay enterprises, which earned the Obeids about $2.5 million annually, were renewed without going to public tender.
57	9	Mr Tripodi, who was ports minister from February 2006 until November 2009, was initially in favour of public tenders.
57	10	But he denied the changes were made at the request of Mr Obeid, who Mr Tripodi acknowledged was urging a shift in government lease policy.
57	11	A phone transcript tabled in ICAC showed calls in August and September 2007 between Mr Obeid, Mr Tripodi and Steve Dunn, a senior bureaucrat who had come into the ports ministry after working under Mr Obeid in the fisheries department.
57	12	"Was the matter being discussed in the course of these telephone conversations the development of the commercial lease policy," Assistant Commissioner Anthony Whealy asked Mr Tripodi.
57	13	"No," Mr Tripodi replied.
57	14	I can't remember what was discussed but it definitely wasn't that.
57	15	Definitely not between myself and Mr Obeid.


58	1	UN hails new goals to tackle poverty
58	2	The United Nations is to start work immediately on a new set of goals to replace the millennium development goals, which were put place 12 years ago to tackle global poverty.
58	3	Australian diplomats played a key role in pushing for "sustainable development goals" to replace the MDGs, which expire in 2015, ahead of the UN sustainable development summit that began in Rio de Janeiro overnight.
58	4	They were included in the final draft of the document, which will be endorsed by world leaders including Ms Gillard during the summit.
58	5	UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon told the summit overnight that now is the time to "rise above national interests."
58	6	"I am pleased that member states have agreed to launch and take ownership of a process to establish universal sustainable development goals - SDGs," he said.
58	7	These SDGs will build on our advances under the millennium development goals, and they will be an integral part of the post-2015 development framework.
58	8	I will spare no effort to implement the mandate given to me by member states to realise our vision of sustainable development goals that build on the success of the MDGs.


59	1	Deductions for capital repairs of the building will appear in utility payment documents of Voronezh residents as a new line of expenses.
59	2	According to the most approximate calculations, from 100 to 400 rubles per month must be additionally paid for a standard two-room apartment starting after the New Year.
59	3	The regional government will determine the precise rate.
59	4	On the other hand, the residents themselves will decide on painting the entrance, cleaning up the stair wells, or even replacing the elevator.
59	5	Deputies of the regional Duma approved this law.
59	6	Vladimir Klyuchnikov, chairman of the Voronezh regional Duma, noted: "Order must be imposed in this matter as well - prioritize capital repairs of buildings, not accumulate funds in management companies, which here are frequently registered either in Moscow, or in Orenburg, or somewhere else, this will be the establishment of government control over the expenditure of funds that residents collect for repairs of multi-apartment buildings."
59	7	Participatory construction is now also under control of the government.
59	8	The law protecting against swindlers was approved by the regional Duma in its final reading.
59	9	The document did not arise out of thin air.
59	10	4.5 thousand people suffered from dishonest developers in our region.
59	11	The problems of the majority were able to be resolved.
59	12	In fact, the new law prescribes the rights and responsibilities for all participants of equity construction.
59	13	Vladimir Klyuchnikov, chairman of the Voronezh regional Duma, stated: "It is no secret that in this area abuses have also begun related to the fact that in '98 the same shareholders got hit, and the same shareholders in the 2000's."
59	14	People have begun to make money on it, these two laws were adopted in order to close the loophole, among other things.
59	15	It was decided to build a temporary residence center near Voronezh for foreign citizens who are subject to deportation.
59	16	The regional parliament adopted such a law not only due to pressure from the federation.
59	17	The region has more than enough problems related to illegal migrants.
59	18	Specifically, last year slightly more than 100 thousand foreigners completed migration registration.
59	19	But only one in five registered official permission to work.
59	20	Where the others work and whether they pay taxes is highly questionable.
59	21	Vladimir Klyuchnikov, chairman of the Voronezh regional Duma, recounted: "They violated legislation, but are not criminals.
59	22	There is no trial, but deportation is necessary - they need to be held somewhere.
59	23	The federation adopted such a solution to arrange such places using regional funds.
59	24	In the Voronezh region, such a place has been determined - it is the Old Olshanka of Semiluksky district.
59	25	Well, but finally the regional parliament allotted new benefits to parents with multiple children.
59	26	Firstly, families raising 5 or more children are fully exempt from the transport tax.
59	27	In this case, the budget loses 3.5 million - but the parents with multiple children save just as much.
59	28	Secondly, and this is the main thing, those who adopt 3 or more children will be provided housing subsidies beginning in the new year.
59	29	For each family member, the new law provides for 18 square meters at a price of 30 thousand per meter.
59	30	For example, a family of 6 persons - papa, mama, biological child and 3 adopted.
59	31	For them, according to regulations, the government will acquire housing with an area of 108 square meters for 3 million 300 thousand rubles.
59	32	It is a perfectly acceptable option for the left bank or the Southwest microdistrict.
59	33	Well, and in the regional center one can buy an entire cottage for that amount.


60	1	CDC issues children's allergy guidelines for schools
60	2	On Wednesday, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released a set of guidelines to manage children's food allergies at school.
60	3	This is the first set of such guidelines the U.S. government has put out, as the number of school-age children suffering from food allergies climbs.
60	4	One in 20 children in the United States now have food allergies.
60	5	The CDC found the prevalence of food allergies among children increased 18 percent between 1997 and 2007.
60	6	The guide contains information for schools on how to make faculty and staff aware of children's food allergies, and how to handle them should an allergic reaction occur.
60	7	It also recommends schools have epinephrine stocked -- the EpiPen brand auto-injector being most commonly used -- to respond to potentially fatal anaphylaxis.
60	8	State legislatures have recently been updating rules to allow schools to stock epinephrine more easily.
60	9	The report also includes a list of typical symptoms communicated by children who are having an allergic reaction.
60	10	Kids may say, "It feels like something is poking my tongue," "My tongue feels like there is hair on it," or "My tongue is tingling."


61	1	Kenyan press outraged at controversial media law
61	2	"It is a frightening place, and it is valid to ask: what is there to prevent Parliament from simply sweeping away the independence of the judiciary tomorrow?" the paper said, challenging the bill as unconstitutional.
61	3	"This law is draconian and very punitive and we reject it," said Cyrus Kamau, managing director for Capital Group - home to CapitalFM, one of Kenya's most respected independent radio stations and news websites.
61	4	He said the new media tribunal "will always be biased because it's an extension of the government," and that restrictions on content and advertising would damage Kenya's place in the global economy.
61	5	"I hope the president will listen to us, and we appeal to him to reject this bill and return it to the MPs," he said.
61	6	According to The Star newspaper, the new bill will effectively hand the government "a stranglehold over the media," while The Standard said democracy and free speech in Kenya had been "dealt a major blow" and lambasted the bill as "draconian."
61	7	The passing of the bill comes amid a string of measures to reinforce national security in the wake of the September's attack by Islamist gunmen on the Westgate shopping mall.
61	8	Kenya media drew the ire of authorities by broadcasting security camera footage of troops who were dispatched to the scene of the attack purportedly robbing the upmarket mall.
61	9	Police chief David Kimaiyo reacted by summoning two journalists and a media executive for questioning, although the summons was retracted following a media outcry.
61	10	Under the new bill, media houses can be fined up to 20 million Kenyan shillings and individual journalists up to one million with the additional risk of being "de-listed," or barred from receiving official press accreditation.
61	11	The tribunal also has the power to seize the property of an offender if a fine is not paid.
61	12	According to the Daily Nation, "even one fine is enough to cripple most FM stations."
61	13	It also said the measures could have a devastating effect on what it described as Kenya's "lively blogosphere."
61	14	By silencing the media, politicians know they can do whatever they like with impunity.
61	15	"No one will ever know," wrote Nation journalist Mutuma Mathiu, describing the Kenyan media as a key source of checks and balances in public life.
61	16	"Left to themselves, politicians would bankrupt the country and take us back to hunting and gathering," he wrote.
61	17	Kenyan lawmakers have been the target of public anger in the past.
61	18	In May they voted to overturn cuts ordered by the national salaries commission and reinstate their hefty salaries of around 532,000 shillings a month tax-free - ranked among the highest in the world.


62	1	Investigators are verifying information about cruel treatment of a child in Biysk
62	2	On October 29 mass media outlets published a report that a teacher from a kindergarten in the city of Biysk locked a child in a cellar for disciplinary purposes.
62	3	Presently, all circumstances are being clarified by investigators, and a legal evaluation is being given for the actions of kindergarten employees.


63	1	After being accused of bad taste Evgenia Vasilyeva began to talk
63	2	Evgenia Vasilyeva, whose persona has riveted the close attention of the media for almost a year, until now has not once commented on the multiple publications in the press about embezzlement in the Ministry of Defense as well as about her personally - relations with former defense minister Anatoliy Serdyukov, her poetry and passion for valuable things.
63	3	However, on November 1 the figurante in the "Defense service" affair broke her silence.
63	4	In an interview with Life News Vasilyeva stated: "From the beginning, of course, there was exactly one objective: pry from me any negative information in relation to the former defense minister."
63	5	There was blackmail in respect to the fact that I have to give testimony, otherwise they will send me to prison.
63	6	Presently those threats have ceased.
63	7	Next we are going to court, we will prove our innocence.
63	8	We are 100 percent sure of victory.
63	9	Moreover, from the interview one can conclude that, perhaps, Vasilyeva was most offended by words to the effect that she has poor taste.
63	10	This is probably in reference to the statement of the official representative of the RF Investigative Committee Vladimir Markin that fakes were detected in the collection of paintings collected by the figurante in the "Defense service" affair.
63	11	Among the arrested property are a number of paintings that the proprietress, being confident in her deep knowledge of art, acquired as masterpieces of world painting.
63	12	However, a fine art appraisal appointed by investigators after the arrest of the paintings established that they have no artistic value and, to put it plainly, are cheap fakes," noted Markin in the beginning of October.
63	13	Some paintings stolen from the Ministry of Defense...
63	14	Then they nevertheless admitted that they were not stolen from the Ministry of Defense, and also said that I have poor taste.
63	15	Who has the right to discuss my taste, discuss certain personal aspects?
63	16	In my opinion, this is simply an outrage," Vasilyeva says.
63	17	Moreover, in response to the question, does she admit her guilt in even one of the 12 criminal counts imputed to her, Vasilyeva stated: "Of course not.
63	18	There is really nothing to admit.
63	19	Furthermore, the damage to the Russian Federation at issue does not exist.
63	20	They are simply deceiving the people, end of story.
63	21	In addition, in response to today's announcement by the RF Investigative Committee that Vasilyeva is evading familiarization with materials of the criminal case, the lawyer of the figurante declared that the "investigator is not letting him and his client familiarize themselves with the materials of the case."
63	22	What was the reason for the revelations by Vasilyeva, who is under house arrest and until now had not communicated with the press?
63	23	Is it possible that as a woman she couldn't not answer the accusation of bad taste?
63	24	Or are the "Komsomolka" journalists right, asserting a couple of days ago that she "fell into an even deeper trance under house arrest" due to the news of the reconciliation between Anatoliy Serdyukov and his wife and his return to the family bosom?
63	25	The well-known military columnist of "KP" Victor Baranets in his article "Serdyukov returned to his wife?" wrote: "Investigators do not rule out that after such a shock she may become more talkative during questioning."
63	26	Previously Vasilyeva assumed responsibility for several accusations of unlawful sale of real estate property of the Ministry of Defense.


64	1	Juventus defender Leonardo Bonucci will not help the team in the upcoming Italian championship match against Parma.
64	2	As reports Football Italia, the trainer staff decided not to include him in the game bid in order to save him for the match against "Real" in the 4th round of the group stage of the Champions League.
64	3	Lichtsteiner, Vuchinich and Pepe will not take part in the duel with Parma as well.
64	4	However, forward Fabio Quagliarella has recovered from injury and is ready to play.


65	1	A study aiming to increase the benefits to Scotland of the HS2 rail project has been announced by the UK government.
65	2	The work by HS2 Ltd suggests high-speed services to Scotland and the north of England will start as soon as Phase One opens in 2026.
65	3	Transport minister Baroness Kramer said the project would "bring the UK together."
65	4	Scottish transport minister Keith Brown said he was "excited" to work with the UK government on the plan.
65	5	Phase One will consist of a new high speed rail line between London and the West Midlands.
65	6	When Phase Two is completed, lines will run to Manchester and Leeds.
65	7	In June the government revised the estimated cost of building the high-speed link between London and the North of England from £32.7bn to £42.6bn.
65	8	The UK government, which has been holding talks with Transport Scotland, has instructed HS2 Ltd to look at further rail capacity and journey time improvements for northern England and Scotland.
65	9	This is to include the possibility of eventual journey times from Glasgow and Edinburgh to London of three hours or less.
65	10	Baroness Kramer said: "Our goal for HS2 is for a truly national network that will bring the UK and its cities closer together."
65	11	We are driving forward HS2 because the benefits it will bring are huge.
65	12	Without it we face a crisis in capacity on our rail network.
65	13	But it is also about connectivity, across the UK 18 cities including Glasgow and Edinburgh will be better connected because of HS2.
65	14	Scottish Secretary Alistair Carmichael added: "Today's announcement is good news for Scotland."
65	15	For the Scottish government, Keith Brown called on Mr Carmichael to "unequivocally" back Scotland's inclusion in the HS2 network.
65	16	Mr Brown said: "High speed rail has the potential to bring huge economic benefits to Scotland, but also adds Scotland's economic weight to the overall case for high speed rail across Britain."
65	17	So we are excited to work in partnership with the UK Government to examine options for bringing high speed rail to Scotland, creating benefit for all and complementing the Glasgow-Edinburgh line which the Scottish Government is already planning.
65	18	I look forward to reviewing the report of the investigation with UK ministers next year and together decide on the next steps.


66	1	The U.S. is cutting food assistance benefits for the poor
66	2	The food allowance for a family of four persons is being reduced by 36 dollars per month
66	3	Starting Friday in the U.S. funding of grocery vouchers known as "food stamps" is being reduced because the corresponding government program is expiring.
66	4	Now 36 dollars per month less than before will be allocated for the food assistance benefits of a family of four persons, say officials.
66	5	This will affect 47 million of the poorest Americans.
66	6	Based on data from the agency Reuters, in the 2012 fiscal year benefits per person amounted to 133 dollars per month on average.
66	7	Expenses on food assistance in the U.S. grew to 80 billion dollars per year due to the growth of unemployment and of prices on food products.
66	8	Approximately 14% of Americans rely on free food assistance issued via "food stamps", bearing such a name from earlier times when they had the shape of paper coupons.
66	9	When the current economic crisis began, the program was expanded in order to stimulate growth of the economy and help the poorest Americans.
66	10	However, Republicans in Congress demand to carry out further cuts in funds allocated for the program, declaring that it should be aimed at helping those who need it more than others.
66	11	Owners of grocery stores throughout America are worried that cuts will lead to reduced expenditures of consumers.
66	12	U.S. congressmen continue to debate on how to possibly cut even more financing of the government.


67	1	Due to new rules introduced by Russian customs, hundreds of trucks sit in queue on the Russian border almost a week already.
67	2	Today Donetsk officials promised to provide drivers with drinking water and to set up portable toilets
67	3	Hundreds of trucks have accumulated at border points upon entry into Russia.
67	4	This situation arose due to a change in the rules of customs processing of freight.
67	5	Ukrainian border patrol guards and customs officers confirm: the line is caused by the Russian side, which did not warn about the innovations in advance.
67	6	Since October 28 customs agencies of Russia have begun to employ additional measures to guarantee delivery of freight, - reported deputy manager of Eastern customs Vladimir Denisov.
67	7	The new document standard is being applied in countries that have joined the convention on international transport.
67	8	Entry points work in an accelerated regime.
67	9	A correspondent of "FACTS" visited the border and talked to truck drivers who ended up hostages of the situation.
67	10	Prices at the roadside store-cafe at the "Novoazovsk" entry point rise each day just like the line of trucks.
67	11	Trucks stand in several rows that spread approximately two kilometers.
67	12	The customs terminal Novoazovsk-Veselo-Voznesenka secures one of the most important transport vectors from southern Ukraine to international motorways.
67	13	From here freights are sent to Stavropol Krai of Russia, Kazakhstan, Georgia, Armenia.
67	14	On Sunday until midnight they still let through, but later they introduced the new rules, - complains long-distance truck driver Aleksei Golovanev (on the photo), who hauls freight in transit through Russia from Turkey to Kazakhstan and sleeps in his vehicle almost a week already.
67	15	According to the new rules, I need an additional packet of documents and payment of freight insurance to cross the border .
67	16	The amount depends on the value of the freight and the distance it will be hauled.
67	17	Minimum coverage 4.5−5 thousand rubles (approximately 1,100−1,300 hryvnia).
67	18	Those who will drive a short distance (say, to Georgia, Armenia) with a freight valued at up to 50 thousand dollars will pay somewhere around 15 thousand rubles (3,800 hryvnia) and drive on.
67	19	But the rest are stuck - after all no one has such big money with them!
67	20	Imagine, if a driver hauls freight for a sum of only four thousand dollars, but even to Moscow he needs 90 thousand rubles (almost 23 thousand hryvnia) to pay for transit!
67	21	There are no facilities for survival at the border, - complains long-distance truck drivers arranging themselves to eat near their vehicles.
67	22	At roadside stores and cafes it is always expensive anyway, but we have never encountered such prices like here!
67	23	Salespeople got their bearings and quickly jacked them up: a long loaf costs 15 hryvnia, seven hryvnia - cup of coffee, 25 hryvnia - bowl of soup.
67	24	But there is only one cafe.
67	25	And no toilet.
67	26	We sleep in the steppe, we also go there to the toilet.
67	27	No wash, no shave...
67	28	I can even go a week without leaving the vehicle, my wife prepared me everything for the road.
67	29	I can last a week, - another long-distance truck driver Victor Skotarenko comforts himself.
67	30	But will the queue get to my vehicle within a week?
67	31	What is your price for one and a half liters of water? - we inquire in the only border store.
67	32	We have for 11 and for 15 hryvnia.
67	33	What, is the bottle crystal or the water infused in silver?
67	34	We have a cafe, not a store.
67	35	Take it while there is still something, - retorts the saleswoman.
67	36	After they began to expose the situation in the media, authorities of the region turned their attention to the dire situation of the Ukrainian drivers.
67	37	The leaders of the Amvrosievska and Novoazovsk district government administrations received an order to provide drinking water to everyone who is standing idle in queue on the Ukrainian-Russian border, - announced the acting chairman of the Donetsk regional government administration Sergei Dergunov.
67	38	Now ambulance teams are on duty at entry points.
67	39	Also portable toilets will be set up for convenience of the people.
67	40	According to an official, the problem associated with the queues will be resolved already in the coming days.
67	41	As reports the press office of the Donetsk regional government administration, as of October 31, at international entry points "Uspenka" and "Novoazovsk", 32 and 68 vehicles, respectively, stood idle.
67	42	"FACTS" will monitor the development of the situation.


68	1	Sony anticipates a lower annual profit
68	2	The Japanese electronics manufacturer, Sony corporation, having completed the previous quarter with a net loss in the amount of 19.3 billion yen, or $197 million, has curtailed the forecast regarding profit for the current financial year.
68	3	Sony's results for the period from July through September of 2013 turned out to be more dismal than expected, which is attributable to the drop in demand for televisions, video cameras and personal computers manufactured by the Japanese corporation.
68	4	Sony's television business, which in the 2nd quarter brought the company its first operating profit in three years in the amount of 5.2 billion yen, in the accounting period has again dropped to 9.3 billion yen of operating loss.
68	5	The Japanese market of consumer electronics is experiencing hard times, especially due to the reduced demand for televisions.
68	6	And while competitors are striving to find a way out of the difficult situation, Sony continues to focus on the consumer segment.
68	7	For example, one of Sony's main competitors, Panasonic corporation, is recently shifting its focus to industrial components: here company sales are growing at high rates, especially owing to automobile systems and environmentally friendly technologies.
68	8	As a result, by the end of the fiscal year, which ends in March of 2014, Sony anticipates receiving 179 billion yen of operating profit versus the previously expected 230 billion yen.
68	9	However, based on data from the agency Thomson Reuters, analysts have proposed that the given indicator will be significantly higher and will amount to 221 billion yen.
68	10	In an effort to recover from the crisis, Sony is expanding its product line.
68	11	In the middle of this month was announced the beginning of sales of "smart" watches from the Japanese corporation that have been equipped with a number of popular functions that help eliminate the need to retrieve a smartphone from your pocket 100 times a day.
68	12	After Sony curtailed the annual forecast of profit and earnings, company shares in the morning at the start of trading in Tokyo dropped in price by more than 11%, descending to the level of 1,668 yen per share.


69	1	How much dead celebrities earn - MK in the U.S. MK
69	2	The rating of living celebrities with the highest income in 2013 was headed by Madonna, earning 125 million dollars.
69	3	But the deceased Michael Jackson, whose postmortem income from October of 2012 through October of 2013 amounted to 160 million, "outdid" her.
69	4	Noticeably behind him are other deceased celebrities who last year "earned" several times less.
69	5	Second in the list of the most "prosperous" departed celebrities compiled by Forbes magazine at year's end was Elvis Presley - 55 million per year, and a line lower the author of Peanuts comics Charles Schultz with 37 million.
69	6	Besides them, into the first five went Elizabeth Taylor, who was leader last year (25 million), and musician Bob Marley (18 million).
69	7	Marilyn Monroe, John Lennon and Albert Einstein also made it into the list.


70	1	A Just Russia proposes to equate defamation of patriotic sentiments with extremism
70	2	For legislative protection of patriotic sentiments of citizens from provocations and insults directed against Russia, "A Just Russia" proposes to equate defamation of patriotic sentiments to extremist activity and punish it with five years of prison.
70	3	As the newspaper "Izvestia" reports, such amendments to legislation prepared by the deputy chairman of the Duma committee on energy Oleg Mikheev have already been submitted to the Supreme Court and the administration for decision.
70	4	The author of the amendments proposes that patriotic sentiments be understood as the emotional connection of a person with the country of which he is a citizen, characterized by love for that country, a responsible attitude toward its fate, respect to its history and culture.
70	5	As Mikheev indicates, in domestic legislation there are sanctions against desecration of the formal symbols of government authority - the flag and emblem.
70	6	However, according to the member of parliament, protection of Russians whose sentiments also may be offended by defamation of government symbols and other displays of disrespect to our country, has been insufficiently elaborated in Russian legislation.
70	7	As an example, he cites the discussions expanding every year on the eve of Victory Day, when certain persons in the media venture to cast doubt on the heroic feat of the people of USSR in the fight against the fascists.
70	8	The day before the nationwide holiday - Victory Day on May 9 - a real bacchanalia unfolds.
70	9	Exercising their wit and "alternative viewpoint" of history, certain publicists come to reasonings about, they say, what a pity that the cultured Germans did not conquer the wild Soviet Union!
70	10	I consider such to be absolutely unacceptable in a country where pride in history remains the main "spiritual staple" of the nation," resents Oleg Mikheev.
70	11	In addition, according to Mikheev, there are a lot more patriotic-spirited than religious people in Russia, moreover the law punishes insults of the sentiments of religious believers, yet it is possible to insult patriotic sentiments virtually without punishment.
70	12	According to the people's representative, it is necessary to equate defamation of patriotic sentiments to extremist activity and prescribe an appropriate punishment in article 282 of the Criminal Code.
70	13	Draft legislation stipulates punishment for insulting patriotic sentiments: from a fine of 100 thousand to 5 years imprisonment.


71	1	The influence of prison wardens will rise in the new structures of public supervisory committees
71	2	Today, the council of the Public Chamber (PC) could confirm the new structures of public supervisory committees (PSC) in 43 regions of Russia.
71	3	If the version put to vote will be adopted, lobbyists of security agencies will increase their influence.
71	4	PSC are public structures that monitor the incarceration conditions in places of detention.
71	5	The cases of Sergei Magnitsky and Leonid Razvozzhaev, riots at the Kopeisk penal colony - the majority of resonant events behind bars receive publicity particularly through the PSC.
71	6	There is a battle between human rights activists and lobbyists of security agencies for control over PSC.
71	7	At the meeting of the PC workgroup on forming PSC, I proposed that experience with human rights activity be set as a criterion.
71	8	"They did not accept it, and they generated lists without elaborating criteria," tells Valeriy Borschev.
71	9	Borschev is the current chairman of the Moscow Supervisory Committee and Association of Independent Observers - the All-Russian organization of human rights activists engaged in prison issues.
71	10	While deputy of the State Duma from "Apple", he developed a law regulating the activity of PSC.
71	11	The PC council must vote for the structures of PSC in 43 regions of the country.
71	12	Less than a thousand hopefuls seek the 1800 vacant seats, and in Ingushetia and Kabardino-Balkaria they could not organize competitions due to lack of candidates.
71	13	The PC promises to organize additional recruitment for the vacant seats.
71	14	The Moscow PC is one of a few committees with a competition, despite the fact that instead of 20 there will be 40 participants in the new structure.
71	15	According to Borschev, in the current structure of the capital's committee are 11 human rights activists and 9 security officials, and in the version that is up for vote in the PC, the ratio is changing to 17 to 23.
71	16	Moreover, 30 human rights activists wanted to get on the capital's committee.
71	17	On the other hand, representative of "Brothers in Arms" Vyacheslav Kalinin can once again enter the new structure.
71	18	He was a member of the PSC for three years, but did not once visit prisoners.
71	19	Borschev believes that security agencies, by appointing their PSC representative, will be able to make the work of human rights activists unbearable, therefore human rights activists do not rule out a collective withdrawal from the committee.
71	20	In their opinion, the advancement of security agencies is coordinated by PSC member Anton Tsvetkov who heads "Officers of Russia" - an organization advocating the interests of security agencies.
71	21	"I don't eat babies for breakfast," declared Anton Tsvetkov to RBC daily.
71	22	He denies that he lobbies for the advancement of any kind of lists and says that he does not intend to hinder human rights activists from visiting arrested opposition members.
71	23	According to Tsvetkov, he was not even interested in which list they are voting on now in the PC.
71	24	He considers the information publicized by Borschev as a form of pressure.
71	25	A possible success of human rights activists is the planned replacement of the leadership of the Chelyabinsk PSC.
71	26	Its former leaders will be dismissed due to last year's Kopeisk riots.
71	27	In the Public Chamber they came to the conclusion that the leadership of the local committee ignored the problems of inmates.
71	28	However, the Rostov-on-Don PSC could shift from human rights activists to security agencies.
71	29	The human rights activist-chairman of the local committee "vanished" from the new lists, yet one of his opponents turned up despite the fact that in May of 2013 the federal Public Chamber expelled him for unethical behavior.
71	30	Borschev considers the lists of the Moscow and Rostov committees "revenge for Kopeisk".
71	31	The denunciation of Nadezhda Tolokonnikova did not influence the Mordovia PSC, which they consider to be "security": only one human rights activist wanted to make it into the new structure, and they did not even accept her documents for the competition.
71	32	PC council member Nikolai Svanidze told RBC Daily that he voted against the proposed list because the situation in Moscow and Rostov-on-Don troubles him.
71	33	He circulated his opinion to other members of the council.
71	34	His PC colleague Pavel Gusev says that he voted in favor because he likes the proposed Moscow list.
71	35	Deputy secretary of the PC Vladislav Grib, who is also a member of the Scientific Research Institute for the Federal Corrections Service, coordinated the compilation of the lists of the PSC.
71	36	Grib told RBC Daily that he does not consider it right to divide candidates into human rights activists and security agencies and does not agree that chairmen of the committees have sufficient authorities to hinder the work of its members.
71	37	Grib declines to forecast the voting results of the PC council.
71	38	If the proposed list today will be rejected, in coming days an amended version will be brought up for a vote.


72	1	Clive Palmer claims PM Tony Abbott has conflict of interest over parental leave scheme
72	2	Billionaire MP Clive Palmer says Prime Minister Tony Abbott has a conflict of interest over his parental leave scheme because his daughters might get pregnant and benefit from it.
72	3	The mining magnate, who is in a dispute about paying a $6 million carbon tax bill, made the claim as he tried to brush off questions about whether he had a conflict.
72	4	The Palmer United Party could control up to four votes in the Senate that may be crucial in deciding if the carbon and mining taxes are axed.
72	5	But Mr Palmer claimed it was only ministers who could have a conflict of interest and said Mr Abbott's daughters stood to personally benefit from policies.
72	6	"He's got a major conflict of interest when it comes to paid parental leave because if any of those daughters get pregnant, he'll have a direct interest whether they get leave or not," Mr Palmer said.
72	7	Two months after the election, the electoral commission officially declared Mr Palmer the winner of the Sunshine Coast seat of Fairfax by 53 votes, after a recount.
72	8	Mr Palmer called for overhaul of election counting to speed up the process.
72	9	Tony Abbott's daughters Frances and Bridget.
72	10	Should this election be decided two months after we stopped voting?
72	11	"We need to have a better system," he said.
72	12	Why is it that we shouldn't have a system where you can walk in, punch your details into a computer, vote immediately and have a result at 6.30 that night?
72	13	Mr Palmer also criticised the use of pencils to mark ballots.
72	14	Is it because they can rub out the result if someone doesn't like it?
72	15	In this day and age having a pencil seems extraordinary.
72	16	The Electoral Commission has been studying options for electronic voting and recently released a joint discussion paper with New Zealand.
72	17	Mr Palmer, 59, said his policies included an international airport for the Sunshine Coast and he would take "very seriously" his new job.
72	18	Public office is about public service.
72	19	"We seek no reward, except the reward of history that we can at a critical time serve this community," he said.


73	1	Google, Samsung, Huawei sued over Nortel patents
73	2	The group that owns thousands of former Nortel patents filed a barrage of patent lawsuits on Thursday against cell phone manufacturers including Google, the company it outbid in the Nortel bankruptcy auction.
73	3	Rockstar, the consortium that bought the Nortel patents for $4.5 billion, sued Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, HTC Corp, Huawei and four other companies for patent infringement in U.S. District Court in Texas.
73	4	Rockstar is jointly owned by Apple, Microsoft, Blackberry, Ericsson and Sony.
73	5	Google is accused of infringing seven patents.
73	6	The patents cover technology that helps match Internet search terms with relevant advertising, the lawsuit said, which is the core of Google's search business.
73	7	Representatives for Samsung, Huawei, HTC and Rockstar could not immediately be reached.
73	8	Samsung, Huawei and HTC all manufacture phones that operate on Google's Android operating system, which competes fiercely with Apple and Microsoft mobile products.
73	9	In 2011 Google placed an initial $900 million bid for Nortel's patents.
73	10	Google increased its bid several times, ultimately offering as much as $4.4 billion.
73	11	After losing out to Rockstar on the Nortel patents, Google went on to acquire Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion, a deal driven partly by Motorola's library of patents.
73	12	"Despite losing in its attempt to acquire the patents-in-suit at auction, Google has infringed and continues to infringe," the lawsuit said.
73	13	Rockstar is seeking increased damages against Google, as it claims Google's patent infringement is willful, according to the complaint.


74	1	The stadium in Yaroslavl is not ready to host 22 thousand spectators, remarked members of police who attended the meeting of the Control and Disciplinary Committee of the Russian Football Union.
74	2	The ticket program was overrated, in their opinion, approximately twofold.
74	3	During the Russian Cup 1/16 final match against "Spartak", only a thousand stewards were deployed while the regulatory norm is nine thousand.
74	4	Spartak fans were allocated 2,200 seats, that is, 10 percent of stadium capacity, however, based on an agreement with the Moscow club, they were sold 5 thousand tickets.
74	5	The head of the Control and Disciplinary Committee Artur Grigoryants publicized this data.


75	1	Bird airlifted to safety from North Sea rig released back into wild
75	2	A bird airlifted ashore after being found exhausted on a North Sea oil rig has been released back into the wild.
75	3	The water rail was put on a helicopter to Aberdeen last month before being nursed back to health by the Scottish SPCA at its rescue centre in Alloa.
75	4	Centre manager Colin Seddon said: "This water rail was likely a winter migrant from Northern Europe who got caught up in strong winds over the North Sea."
75	5	It seems the bird became exhausted and managed to find refuge on the oil rig.
75	6	He added: "It was unable to fly off again so we were contacted for help."
75	7	The water rail was fit and well by the time it was released.


76	1	Fines for unauthorized street vending in Vologda to increase severalfold
76	2	Municipal authorities believe that increased fines will help bring order to Vologda and free the streets from spontaneous booths and stalls.
76	3	The majority of street vendors do not pay taxes, and the products they sell frequently do not pass health inspections.
76	4	This means that the health of the citizens of Vologda is exposed to danger
76	5	Therefore, the minimum fine imposed on citizens for unauthorized vending will increase sixfold beginning in November, from 500 rubles to 3,000 rubles, reports the press relations service of the Administration of Vologda.


77	1	In September, 600 people were dismissed from the Ford automobile factory in Vsevolozhsk.
77	2	As they say in trade unions, all of the dismissed received compensation.
77	3	However, the issue of the reduction of industrial production in the region is becoming much more poignant than the problems of workers.
77	4	Deputy of the regional legislative assembly Aleksei Etmanov at a meeting said that they cut around 600 people at the factory of the company Ford in Vsevolozhsk.
77	5	According to him, this occurred as early as September: at that time in line with a program of voluntarily dismissal, which was developed together with the trade union of the organization, around 600 people resigned from the factory.
77	6	Workers who decided to resign voluntarily were offered "golden parachutes" in the amount of several salaries.
77	7	Due to that, the overwhelming majority left their jobs voluntarily.
77	8	However, according to Etmanov, such an amount of people is an entire night shift.
77	9	I think that the matter will not be limited to this.
77	10	However, in the coming two years authorities do not plan on undertaking any programs to support regional enterprises that are in a difficult situation," he explained, adding that when adopting a budget the government does not take into account the stagnation of production in the region and the large job cuts.
77	11	At Ford, they are not denying nor confirming this information.
77	12	We are awaiting a response from the company, and, as soon as it emerges, we will definitely publicize it.
77	13	Talk of cutting workers at the Ford factory in Vsevolozhsk has gone on for a long time.
77	14	For example, company plans to dismiss 600 people became known as early as September.
77	15	Previously the factory announced a suspension of automobile production.
77	16	The reason they gave at the factory was a drop in demand for Ford automobiles in Russia.
77	17	According to Petrostat, results of nine months of 2013 show that the industrial output in the Leningrad region decreased by 5.4%.
77	18	Production of vehicles and equipment decreased by 11.5%.


78	1	Dmitry Medvedev: RF GDP growth rates are insufficient for growth of the nation
78	2	Prime minister Dmitry Medvedev regards as insufficient for the RF the growth rates of its GDP and is confident that the situation can be improved by simplifying the terms for crediting business and changing the structure of the Russian economy, focusing on innovations, reports Reuters.
78	3	We planned this year a growth of GDP near 3%, perhaps even a little more.
78	4	In reality it will be a little less than 2%.
78	5	Against the backdrop of the recession in a wide range of countries of Europe seemingly not too bad, but for us this is little because the economic basis is also not so powerful as in a wide range of countries, and in general, in order to develop, there must be higher rates.
78	6	Now it is very important that Russian companies, Russian business receive good loans at a good price - this is the first thing that definitely needs to be done," emphasized the head of the government.


79	1	"Yugra" general manager Andrei Belmach noted that so far it is difficult to say how much time will be needed to search for a new head trainer.
79	2	This post became vacant after the resignation of Sergei Shepelev.
79	3	The resignation occurred a few hours ago, therefore I am not ready to say how much time will be needed to search for a new trainer, ITAR-TASS cites Belmach.
79	4	Maybe a day.
79	5	Maybe a month.
79	6	We are studying all possible options.
79	7	Preference will be given to a Russian specialist.
79	8	It is desired to not merely find some trainer, but the kind of person who will work in our club for several years and achieve certain results inside it.


80	1	A snowboarder was specially photographed for an Olympic banknote
80	2	The Bank of Russia on Wednesday issued into circulation a commemorative banknote dedicated to the city of Sochi where already this winter the Olympics will take place.
80	3	The face value of the banknote is 100 rubles.
80	4	But online bloggers are already actively mocking the commemorative banknote.
80	5	After the presentation of the Olympic banknote on October 30 they drew attention to the fact that the image of the snowboarder from the banknote can be found in image banks.
80	6	Specifically - in the free photo archive StockExchange, where the photo in question is dated 2005.
80	7	That same photo is used in a Photoshop lesson published on the Russian website "Megaobzor" on January 18, 2011.
80	8	In addition, it was already used in an advertisement for RugGear smartphones.
80	9	The Olympic banknote was designed in a dark blue-light blue color gamut.
80	10	At one side a snowboarder flying over Sochi is displayed,  at the other - the view of an Olympic stadium and the Firebird.
80	11	The author of the design of the banknote is Pavel Bushuev, winner in the competition among students of Saint Petersburg's Academy of Arts n.a. Repin.
80	12	At the presentation it was noted that several sports were examined - downhill skiing, freestyle and ski jumping, but in the end snowboarding was selected since it is a relatively young type of sport.
80	13	According to an "Izvestia" source close to the Central Bank, the regulator is not indifferent to public opinion relating to the wide distribution of an image of a snowboarder from an Olympic banknote and it is now studying the situation.
80	14	However in Gosznak they are not too worried by the buzz surrounding the Olympic banknote.
80	15	The head of the press service of Gosznak Natalia Nikiforova told "Izvestia" that all discussions regarding plagiarism are ridiculous.
80	16	The snowboarder on the banknote is turned to the right, on online photographs - to the left, specified Nikiforova.
80	17	The person in the photo session to create the banknote was photographed from various points, then the final image was selected, with a typical pose of a snowboarder on it.
80	18	She also noted that copyright laws do not apply to the Olympic banknote since the artist received payment for the work.
80	19	According to experts, the discussion surrounding the image on the Olympic banknote is entirely positive.
80	20	The recognizability of the image on the banknote is a plus for its promotion, - believes the CEO of NP "RusBrand" Aleksei Popovichev.
80	21	It is rather difficult to prove one hundred percent resemblance of the images on the banknote and in photo banks, therefore claims to dispute intellectual property for this image will unlikely arise.
80	22	The first ever Olympic banknote appeared in China - a commemorative banknote for 10 yuan was issued for the Olympic Games in Beijing in 2008.
80	23	Russia decided to support this tradition.


81	1	Fashion week in Sao Paolo.
81	2	Back home they do not consider her merely a model, but a real star.
81	3	Despite the fact that Gisele Bundchen left work for some time devoting herself to motherhood, she specially arrived for these days and for this week of fashion parade.
81	4	The several months absence did not hinder her from preserving her place on the podium and on the pedestal.
81	5	Gisele remains the highest paid supermodel in the world.
81	6	This time she participated in the fashion parade for the brand "Colcci".
81	7	The finale of fashion week is usually the most interesting exhibits.
81	8	Sort of like what stylist Lino Villaventura organized.
81	9	The brand is more than 30 years old, in parallel with the production of luxury class ready-to-wear, the designer actively works in theater and in cinema, designing shows and developing costumes for many well-known films.
81	10	Altogether, more than 30 thousand firms and companies related to the textile industry and the fashion world took part in the concluding week of fashion in Sao Paolo.
81	11	This is one of the most dynamically developing spheres of production, more than 2 million Brazilians are engaged in it, and the annual turnover reaches 50 billion dollars.


82	1	Driver speeding at 130mph with hot drink between legs fined £1,000
82	2	A motorist has been fined £1,000 for driving at up to 130mph (210km/h) with a hot drink balanced between his legs.
82	3	Andrew Howie, 35, of Tiptree, Essex, was spotted driving his Mercedes Benz on the A120 at Braintree on 27 May.
82	4	When police stopped him they discovered the takeaway drink between his legs.
82	5	At Colchester Magistrates' Court Howie admitted a charge of driving without due care and attention.
82	6	Seven points added to his licence resulted in him receiving a six-month driving ban.
82	7	Howie was also ordered to pay costs of £90 and a victim surcharge of £100.


83	1	In Belarus starting in November pensions will be raised
83	2	In Belarus starting in November of this year pensions will be raised, a BELTA correspondent was told at the central administration of pension provision of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security.
83	3	Starting on November 1 of this year, there will be an adjustment of the minimum wage of workers in the republic, applied with the previous recalculation of pensions, with an increase in its amount by 5.4%, and the corresponding recalculation of work pensions will be done in accordance with decree No.478, dated October 21, 2013, "On raising pensions".
83	4	As a result of the recalculation, starting in November work retirement pensions will be increased, based on an estimate, by an average of 5.3%.
83	5	The average retirement pension will equal Br 2 million 295 thousand.
83	6	The increase in pensions will affect 2.4 million residents of the republic.
83	7	Expenditures of the Social Security Fund of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security of Belarus toward payment of pensions in the increased amounts starting in November of this year will increase by Br 274.3 billion per month.
83	8	At the same time as the recalculation of work pensions in November of this year will also be recalculated the minimum and social pensions, bonuses, raises and additional payments to pensions in connection with the increased minimum living budget on average per capita.
83	9	The minimum living budget for the period from November 1 2013 through January 31 2014 was confirmed by the government at the amount of Br 1 million 47 thousand 530 - 2.1% higher than the one that was in effect during the period from August 1 through October 31.
83	10	Accordingly, the sizes of minimal work pensions, social pensions and bonuses, raises and additional payments to pensions will be increased by 2.1% starting on November 1.
83	11	In Belarus more than Br 53 trillion has been secured for payment of pensions with allowance for the raises in 2013.


84	1	NSA Blames "Internal Error," Not Hackers, For Website Crash
84	2	The shadowy National Security Agency said late Friday that it was a glitch that brought down its public website for a few hours, not hackers as some claimed online.
84	3	"NSA.gov was not accessible for several hours tonight because of an internal error that occurred during a scheduled update," the spy agency said in an emailed statement.
84	4	The issue will be resolved this evening.
84	5	Claims that the outage was caused by a distributed denial of service [DDoS] attack are not true.
84	6	Earlier this evening online server trackers noted the NSA's website had been down for at least six hours, and the site continues to be inaccessible for some users.
84	7	Earlier an NSA spokesperson told ABC News the agency's internal, sensitive network was "not at all" compromised.
84	8	No classified information is in danger, the spokesperson said.
84	9	At least one hacktivist group online claimed that they were responsible for bringing down the NSA site with a DDoS attack.
84	10	DDoS attacks are designed to flood a target website with traffic until the servers are overloaded and the site collapses.
84	11	The cyber tactic is a relatively unsophisticated one and the attacks are not meant to penetrate the internal network of the target system.
84	12	The formerly super secretive NSA, once nicknamed No Such Agency, has found itself in very public light, and amid vicious criticism, in past months following a stream of revelations about is vast foreign and domestic surveillance programs - collectively the product of secret NSA files stolen from the agency and leaked by disenchanted former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.
84	13	Such growing controversy surrounding the agency prompted early speculation that tonight's incident was the result of a targeted cyber operation.


85	1	Gazprom's Alexei Miller says pipeline in Bulgaria starts new gas era
85	2	The start of construction of the South Stream gas pipeline in Bulgaria marks the launch of one of Europe's largest energy projects, Gazprom's chief said.
85	3	"A landmark event has taken place today: Construction started on the Bulgarian section of the South Stream gas pipeline, the most large-scale and important project in Europe," Gazprom Chairman Alexei Miller said in a statement Thursday.
85	4	This project is a key element of energy security of the whole European continent.
85	5	South Stream is meant to add diversity to Russia's export routes through Europe.
85	6	A contractual dispute between Gazprom and its counterparts in Ukraine, which hosts most of Russia's gas for Europe, adds a layer of risk to conventional routes, officials say.
85	7	Miller said the direct connection to Bulgaria, a member of the European Union, means geopolitical risks associated with transit countries are eliminated "forever."
85	8	Bulgarian consumers will receive gas from South Stream at a discounted rate once the entire project starts operating in 2015.
85	9	Gazprom said construction should begin in other downstream countries by year's end.
85	10	The pipeline is designed for an annual capacity of 2.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas.


86	1	The agency "Rosbalt" was deprived of media status for obscenity
86	2	On October 31 the Moscow Municipal Court resolved to annul the license of registration of the agency "Rosbalt", writes "Lenta".
86	3	Roskomnadzor insisted on depriving the agency of media status for systematic and blatant violations of the law on mass media.
86	4	A disagreeable precedent was created during the trial: the court considered it feasible to close the media outlet, virtually depriving the agency of the right to put forth counterarguments.
86	5	What is "Rosbalt"
86	6	Closed joint-stock company "Information Agency Rosbalt" was founded in Saint Petersburg in 2000.
86	7	In subsequent years the agency opened a second head office in Moscow and a number of regional divisions.
86	8	Also with the agency operate representative offices in countries of the former USSR.
86	9	Since 2001 "Rosbalt" has developed and functioned as a federal informational-analytical agency.
86	10	By the middle of the 2000's the agency was entered into the list of the most recognizable private Internet media resources in Russia.
86	11	Moreover, "Rosbalt" always occupied a rather specific niche: the core of exclusive publications of the agency composed (and compose to this day) news items with reference to sources in law enforcement agencies.
86	12	Conversations about the proximity of the publication to security structures continued throughout the existence of the agency.
86	13	While "Rosbalt" possessed an extensive base of sources in various agencies, the fact that Natalya Chaplina - wife of Victor Cherkesov - stood at the head of the project also spoke in favor of such assumptions.
86	14	Moreover, the role of Chaplina in the management of "Rosbalt" is not fully clear: most commonly they call her "project manager".
86	15	The general director of the agency is Larisa Afonina, chief editor - Nikolai Ulyanov.
86	16	Recently "Rosbalt" did not figure in the ratings of federal media resources - not by citation, not by audience.
86	17	In October the agency occupied 25th place in the visibility rating of websites of Russian media based on the version of LiveInternet.
86	18	Based on that same LiveInternet, the average daily audience of the website rosbalt.ru amounts to approximately 150 thousand unique visitors (and up to 500 thousand views), monthly - approximately three million unique visitors.
86	19	In the list of the most popular materials over the last five months - news items on the powerlessness of the Kremlin in relation to Ukraine, death of the soloist of the group "King and Fool", pogroms in the capital's Biryulevo.
86	20	The conflict of "Rosbalt" with Roskomnadzor began in July of 2013 when amendments to the law on media prohibiting journalists from obscenities took effect.
86	21	The agency discovered prohibited vocabulary in two video clips published on the website of the agency ("The horseman from Krasnodar" and "Pussy Riot desecrated oil derricks").
86	22	What came next the parties describe differently.
86	23	Based on the discovered video materials, Roskomnadzor accused "Rosbalt" of blatant and systematic violation of the law on media and took legal action demanding to take away the agency's license.
86	24	At "Rosbalt" they declared that the claims of the agency were unjustified: firstly, the clips were not editorial materials, secondly, the obscenities in them were masked, and, thirdly, the clips were removed from the website immediately after the warning.
86	25	Representatives of the agency appealed the claims of Roskomnadzor in a magistrate court - and when on October 22, 2013 the Moscow Municipal Court accepted the claim of Roskomnadzor, examination of those complaints still continued.
86	26	However, already on the 25th the magistrate judge reached a decision not in favor of "Rosbalt": chief editor Nikolai Ulyanov was found guilty of violating the code of administrative offenses and was fined 20 thousand rubles - 10 thousand for each clip.
86	27	Evidently this is what predetermined the outcome of the hearing in the Moscow Municipal Court - if we dismiss the idea that the outcome could have been predetermined even earlier.
86	28	On October 31 the court reached a decision to annul the certificate of registration of "Rosbalt", in effect depriving the agency of the status of a media outlet.
86	29	It cannot be said that "Rosbalt" over the course of this confrontation was all alone.
86	30	Deputies of the State Duma supported the agency (a declaration addressed to the head of Roskomnadzor Alexander Zharov on October 10 was signed by 26 deputies; the document itself was submitted on the initiative of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation).
86	31	The unlawfulness of closing the publication was declared by the head of the Union of Journalists of Russia Vsevolod Bogdanov, chairman of the Moscow Union of Journalists Pavel Gusev and the head of the presidential Council on Human Rights Mikhail Fedotov.
86	32	Moreover, according to Bogdanov, the leadership of Roskomnadzor even provided him with certain guarantees that the matter will not go as far as revocation of the license.
86	33	The trial of "Rosbalt" demonstrated: under whose jurisdiction it is safer to be for a media outlet in Russia today is a huge question.


87	1	The speech gene has turned out to be a stimulator for the formation of synapses
87	2	Scientists from John Hopkins University and the School of Medicine at Mount Sinai have discovered a protein thanks to which the "speech gene" Foxp2 performs its function, stimulating the formation of new connections between neurons.
87	3	The research has been published in Science, and its abstract can be read on the journal's website.
87	4	The Foxp2 gene is the first known gene whose function is directly related to speech.
87	5	Its role was able to be established in 2001 owing to the discovery of a family of several people who could not correctly pronounce words and sometimes even they themselves did not understand each other.
87	6	Scientists ascertained that in members of the family the activity of the Foxp2 gene had been disrupted, though the manner in which it performs its function remained unknown.
87	7	In new research, biologists have shown that Foxp2 performs at least a portion of its functions as a simulator of the formation of new synapses in the area of the brain associated with speech formation.
87	8	It does this owing to another gene, SRPX2.
87	9	The latter was discovered as a result of a search for factors that stimulate the formation of synapses.
87	10	SRPX2 proved to be one of 10 similar genes found by the authors, whereas only Foxp2 influences its activity.
87	11	The fact that SRPX2 actually influences vocalization was confirmed by scientists in an experiment on mice.
87	12	When the activity of the gene was artificially reduced in the animals, they screamed less when separated from mother.
87	13	If the activity of the gene was restored, the frequency of emitted sounds also was restored.
87	14	Previously interconnection between vocalization and Foxp2 itself was also demonstrated on mice.
87	15	Animals in which a human copy of the gene was introduced peeped more actively and at a lower frequency than normal mice.
87	16	Thus far, however, scientists do not know whether the function of Foxp2 and, consequently, of SRPX2 controlled by it, is linked with the purely "mechanical" properties of the formation of sounds or with more subtle processes.


88	1	Ponomarev left "A Just Russia"
88	2	State Duma deputy from the party "A Just Russia", member of its branch in Novosibirsk Ilya Ponomarev submitted a notice of resignation from the political organization.
88	3	As the parliamentarian announced, he submitted the notice to the Novosibirsk regional division of the party.
88	4	According to its charter, this automatically means that Ponomarev has left the ranks of the "Just Russians".
88	5	We sit, we drink tea...
88	6	"For some reason many want to see the picture "Ilya Ponomarev places his party membership card on the table", but there is nothing so epochal in this," the deputy commented his decision.
88	7	Ponomarev noted that he maintains a good relationship with the regional division of "Just Russians".
88	8	Meanwhile, Ilya Ponomarev does not intend to give up the mandate of State Duma deputy.
88	9	He explained that despite leaving the party, he will remain a member of the faction and by law cannot leave it.
88	10	Reports of the intention of Ilya Ponomarev to leave the party "A Just Russia" emerged on October 30.
88	11	It was reported that Dimitry Gudkov and Valeriy Zubov would leave "JR" together with him, however the latter quickly refuted that information.


89	1	Fancy a glow-in-the-dark ice cream?
89	2	A British entrepreneur has created the world's first glow-in-the-dark ice cream - using jellyfish.
89	3	Charlie Francis has harnessed the fluorescent properties of the marine animal to develop the luminescent snack.
89	4	He came up with the idea after reading a research paper on jellyfish and convinced scientists in China to chemically recreate the glowing protein.
89	5	The ice cream reacts with the eater's tongue - raising the pH level in the protein and making it glow.
89	6	Chris says because the ice cream lights up when it reacts with the heat of the mouth it means the more you lick, the brighter it becomes.
89	7	Charlie, founder of the "Lick Me I'm Delicious" ice cream company, said: "It is incredible stuff but still at very early days in terms of production, so £200 gets you about 2g of the stuff."
89	8	The protein we are using in the ice cream reacts with your tongue at neutral pH.
89	9	So as your mouth warms up the protein it will raise the pH level and the ice cream will glow.
89	10	We have been testing it out over the past few months and it seemed perfect to share it over Halloween because it gives that wonderful glow effect.
89	11	It is probably the most expensive ice cream I have made because the jellyfish luminescence is four times more expensive than gold.
89	12	So each scoop costs me around £140.
89	13	It tastes pretty good though.
89	14	Charlie's experimental company, based in Bristol, is famed for its unusual flavours including beer, cheese, beef and gold leaf.
89	15	But his next creation is set to be even more ambitious.
89	16	He said: "I really want to develop an invisible ice cream."
89	17	It is inherently impossible because of the refraction caused by the ice crystals which make up the ice cream, but I reckon we will find a way of doing it.
89	18	The ice cream harnesses the fluorescent properties of a jellyfish, synthesized by Chinese scientists


90	1	GM recalls some new pickup trucks in U.S. to fix seatbacks
90	2	General Motors Co is recalling nearly 19,000 of its all-new 2014 Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickup trucks to repair a problem with the manual reclining seatback, according to a notice from U.S. auto safety regulators on Friday.
90	3	On some of the trucks, the front seats may have a defect in the reclining mechanism.
90	4	As a result, the seatbacks fail to comply with federal auto safety standards on head restraints.
90	5	"If the vehicle is struck from behind, the head restraint may not properly protect occupants, increasing the risk of injury," according to the notice posted on the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration website.
90	6	The recalled models were built between August 1 and September 10.
90	7	GM's truck roll-out began in June and represents the most important vehicle launch for the No. 1 U.S. automaker since its 2009 bankruptcy restructuring.
90	8	GM told truck owners about the defect in the first half of October.
90	9	NHTSA could not review the owner notification letter due to the 16-day government shutdown, which tempered auto sales growth in October.
90	10	Sales of the Silverado and Sierra trucks, which were redesigned for the 2014 model year, were up about 20 percent during the first 10 months of the year, GM said on Friday.
90	11	In October, GM sold 42,660 Silverado and 16,503 Sierra pickup trucks.
90	12	GM shares were up 1.4 percent at $37.47 on the New York Stock Exchange on Friday afternoon.


91	1	A pedestrian zone was opened near Tretyakov Gallery
91	2	A new pedestrian zone has emerged in Moscow.
91	3	It is located near Tretyakov Gallery and occupies an area two kilometers from the Novokuznetskaya metro station to Bolotnaya Square.
91	4	Street lamps, florists, benches, trash bins and toilets have been installed along its entire length, blind fences and illegal advertisements have been cleared.
91	5	In addition to Klimentovsky and Lavrushinsky Lanes, which were already pedestrian, five streets were closed to vehicles - Ordynsky Cul-de-sac, Bolshoy and Maliy Tolmachevskiy Lanes, Kadashevskaya Embankment and Bolotnaya Square.
91	6	Traffic on Maroseika and Petrovka Streets are not restricted.
91	7	In the area of Pyatnitskaya Street from the entrance hall of Novokuznetskaya station to Klimentovsky Lane, conditions for pedestrians were created without removing traffic and reducing the roadway, reports newsmsk.com.
91	8	Tretyakov Gallery, Church of the Holy Martyr Clement Pope of Rome, museums, libraries, monuments and other sights ended up within the pedestrian zone.
91	9	Previously, Tverskoy Passage, Stoleshnikov Lane and Kuznetsky Most Street became fully pedestrian.
91	10	Bolshaya Dmitrovka, where a pedestrian zone was opened in early September, was decided to be closed to vehicles on weekends and holidays.


92	1	Zenit fans on the official site of the club declared the former captain of Team Russia as the best player of the past month.
92	2	In October, Arshavin took part in two matches in the group stage of the UEFA Champions League, three meets at the Russian championships and in a cup match.
92	3	He scored 2 assists.
92	4	Second place based on monthly results went to goalkeeper Yuri Lodygin, who became the best player of August and September.
92	5	The forward Khalk is in third place.
92	6	The Brazilian scored two goals and three assists.
92	7	Let us recall that Arshavin returned to "Zenit" this summer.


93	1	A series of premiere "Art-mainstream" film screenings will take place in Moscow
93	2	A series of "Art-mainstream" film screenings, where viewers will be able to see one Russian and four foreign films several days before they are released, will take place in the "Rolan" movie theater from the 1st through the 5th of November, reports RIA "Novosti" citing the project organizers.
93	3	The French comedy from director and actress Reem Kherici "Paris At All Costs" will open the "Art-mainstream" program.
93	4	This is the story of a model Maya (Kherici herself) working in the French capital who is deported back home to Morocco due to visa problems.
93	5	In addition to the film of Kherici, viewers will be shown a new film from the famous South Korean director Kim Ki-duk "Moebius", the melodramatic biopic of Oliver Hirschbiegel "Diana: Love Story" (Diana) with Naomi Watts in the lead role and the main film of Cannes Film Festival held last May, Abdellatif Kechiche's "Life of Adele".
93	6	The only Russian participant of "Art-mainstream" will be the winner of the Kinotavr festival, the film of Alexander Veledinsky "The Geographer Drank His Globe Away" based on the novel of the same name by Alexei Ivanov.
93	7	The lead role of a charming unsuccessful teacher Victor Sluzhkin was played in the film by Konstantin Khabensky, whose work was distinguished with the "Kinotavr" prize.


94	1	Snowden ready to "cooperate" with Germany over US surveillance
94	2	Edward Snowden, the US intelligence whistleblower, has declared that he is willing to travel to Berlin to give evidence to the German parliament if the US National Security Agency and its director Keith Alexander fail to provide answers about its activities.
94	3	German MP Hans-Christian Ströbele on Thursday met Mr Snowden in Russia, where he has been granted asylum, to discuss him testifying in Germany.
94	4	A letter from Mr Snowden, presented to the media in Berlin on Friday by the MP, said: "Though the outcome of my efforts has been demonstrably positive, my government continues to treat dissent as defection, and seeks to criminalise political speech with felony charges that provide no defence."
94	5	However, speaking the truth is not a crime.
94	6	In the letter, Mr Snowden said he believed the support of the international community could persuade the US government to abandon criminal charges against him.
94	7	The charges filed by the US justice department include espionage and theft of government property.
94	8	Hans-Peter Friedrich, German interior minister, told Zeit Online: "If Mr Snowden is ready to speak to German officials, we will find ways to make this possible."
94	9	Relations between the US and Germany have come under strain following claims that the NSA bugged Chancellor Angela's Merkel's phone.
94	10	Thomas Oppermann, the MP who heads the parliamentary panel that oversees intelligence, said that if there were an opportunity to hear Mr Snowden as a witness "without bringing him into danger and completely ruining relations with the US," it should be taken.
94	11	Mr Ströbele, an MP for Germany's Green party, published a picture of himself with Mr Snowden on his Twitter feed.
94	12	He was accompanied on his visit to Russia by two German journalists.
94	13	Mr Ströbele said that, according to the former NSA contractor's lawyer, Mr Snowden would not be able to return to Russia if he left.
94	14	If Mr Snowden testified in Germany he would need assurances that he would be "safe" there, the MP said.
94	15	Mr Snowden said in his letter that he had faced a "severe and sustained" campaign of persecution that forced him from his home.
94	16	However he said that he was heartened by the worldwide response to "my act of political expression."
94	17	Citizens around the world as well as high officials - including in the United States - have judged the revelation of an unaccountable system of pervasive surveillance to be a public service.
94	18	The letter extends an offer to cooperate with German authorities "when the difficulties of this humanitarian situation have been resolved."


95	1	Foreign workers on 457 visas could undergo "genuineness" test
95	2	A "genuineness" test for foreign workers on 457 visas is being considered by the government as it contemplates expanding a crackdown.
95	3	The test, if adopted, would be applied through a criteria aimed at preventing 457s being used to fill unskilled positions or as a back door way to move family and friends to Australia.
95	4	A government discussion paper was released today as former Labor MP Maxine McKew slammed the government's rhetoric about foreign workers, saying it could offend Australia's neighbours.
95	5	"Loud declarations about 'foreigners getting to the back of the queue' and 'Aussie jobs first' are a very unpleasant throwback to a time when unions demanded a protected labor market," she told the Australia India Institute today.
95	6	Historically, that meant it was white labour that had to be protected - and if some in the region saw echoes of that historic artifact, I wouldn't be surprised.
95	7	The discussion paper outlines 12 measures that were previously considered by former Immigration Minister Chris Bowen.
95	8	Immigration Minister Brendan O'Connor, who was yesterday in Sri Lanka where he is meeting officials about people smuggling, has implemented five of the recommended changes with the remainder under consideration.
95	9	If the "genuineness" criteria was adopted a visa applicant could be scrutinised about "whether the nomination is genuine in circumstances where the nominee is a relation or personal associate of an owner or relevant person of the sponsoring business."
95	10	Businesses could also be required to account for the number of 457 visa holders after previously businesses who had intended to sponsor a small number of workers then employed hundreds.
95	11	Meanwhile, a 35-year-old Sri Lankan asylum seeker died of a suspected heart attack after arriving on an asylum boat at Christmas Island this week.
95	12	The man's distraught nine-year-old son travelled to Australia with him and has been comforted since the death of his father on Wednesday by an adult cousin who was also on the vessel.
95	13	Australian authorities rushed the man to Christmas Island Hospital, where he died.


96	1	The head trainer of "Colorado" Patrick Roy, explaining the decision to unleash goalkeeper Semyon Varlamov in the first minutes in the final match with "Dallas", expressed confidence that the recent night behind bars has not shaken his confidence in the Russian, reports from Dallas staff reporter from "Sport Express" Natalia Shmeleva.
96	2	But what should we expect, said Roy after the morning skate of the "Avalanches".
96	3	Of course, what happened worries us all, but we are confident in him and feel that it will be good for him to get out on the ice today.
96	4	We want him to get out on the ice and demonstrate his usual level.
96	5	In other words, you are completely confident that the situation in no way has affected the performance of the goalkeeper?
96	6	Well today we will see.
96	7	Without a doubt our players will support Varly in that they will help him protect the goal, as was the case in the previous matches of this season.
96	8	Above all, no one on the team intends to draw any kind of conclusions until the court investigates the situation.


97	1	Baumgertner was nominated for the board of directors of Uralkali
97	2	The acting board of directors of open joint-stock company Uralkali proposed the candidacy of the arrested in Minsk general director Vladislav Baumgertner for the new board membership, as reported on the website of the Russian company.
97	3	Baumgertner was entered into a list of 11 persons nominated for the new board of directors.
97	4	This list was prepared for the extraordinary meeting of shareholders on November 29 at which the new structure of the board of directors will be determined by vote.
97	5	Presently, Baumgertner is under house arrest in Minsk.
97	6	During the arrest in August of this year, he was arraigned for abuse of official powers.
97	7	However, later the president of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko announced at a press conference that the accusations against Baumgertner were requalified as "embezzlement".


98	1	The EU is preparing measures to support Ukraine in case of economic pressure from Russia
98	2	The European Union has a backup plan to supply Ukraine with gas and to reach an agreement with the IMF for an emergency loan if Russia undertakes any measures in response to the possible signing of an association agreement between the EU and Ukraine at the Vilnius summit.
98	3	Negotiations are being conducted with the IMF for a standby loan, and another EU official who is directly involved in the negotiations has stated that their goal is to conclude an agreement in the near future.
98	4	In addition to the potential loan from the IMF, Ukraine could also receive 610 million euros from the European Union itself.
98	5	Analysts surveyed by Reuters have doubts about whether Ukraine and the IMF can overcome their longstanding disagreements regarding the terms of financing.
98	6	Another organization that doubts the possibility of enacting the reforms required for such assistance is the international rating agency S&P, which on Friday lowered Ukraine's sovereign credit rating by one level, from B to B-.
98	7	However, representatives of the EU are saying that the IMF may show some flexibility in their loan terms after taking into account Ukraine's circumstances.
98	8	In addition to its plan to support the country financially, the EU has a backup option to supply Ukraine with gas, most deliveries of which are currently coming from Russia.
98	9	This could possibly include gas from Nord Stream or reverse deliveries from Slovakia.
98	10	According to officials, the latter option above would be the most feasible and acceptable method in case Russia "isolates" Ukraine.
98	11	Analysts believe that such a method involving reverse deliveries to Ukraine could only be used for a few weeks and would likely lead to reduced deliveries to other regions.
98	12	"EU countries and the Ukrainians are conducting negotiations on how to create favorable conditions so that Ukraine could import gas from other sources instead of Russia, or from the same source but via other delivery routes," noted a source from Reuters.


99	1	"Dynamo" is organizing for its fans a free commuter train to Khimki for the match with "Tom"
99	2	"Dynamo" fans will be able to reach Khimki for the RPL 15th round against "Tom" on a free commuter train.
99	3	According to the official website of the club, the Moscow club is organizing for its fans a free commuter train to the match "Dynamo" - "Tom", which will take place on October 2 at "Rodina" stadium in Khimki.
99	4	It will depart from Leningradsky railway station at 14:38.
99	5	After the match, the commuter train will deliver the fans back to Moscow - it will depart from Khimki station at 18:53.
99	6	Let us recall that the match "Dynamo" - "Tom" will begin on November 2 at 16:00 Moscow time.
99	7	Sovsport.ru will run its text ticker.


100	1	In the U.S. it will be possible to use mobile devices during airplane takeoff and landing.
100	2	New rules for safe use of mobile devices during takeoff and landing of an airliner have been approved in the United States, reports the telecorporation BBC.
100	3	As expected, American airline companies will permit passengers to use smartphones and tablets during the entire flight, the new rules will take effect by the end of 2013.
100	4	Nonetheless, Internet connection to receive and send email will be prohibited during flights at a height lower than 3 kilometers.
100	5	Due to the danger of the emergence of interference of radio equipment of planes, cellular voice communications will be banned as before.
100	6	Thus, aircraft passengers will be allowed to read electronic books, play games on tablets and other gadgets and watch videos during domestic and international flights.
100	7	Before the rules are adopted, airlines will be required to test the safety of using electronic devices during a flight.
100	8	In addition, airline companies will have to convince the U.S. federal aviation administration that they will be able to handle the presumptive impact of mobile devices on aviation equipment and airplane control devices.
100	9	According to a source, based on the U.S. example, in Great Britain it will also be possible to revise current norms for using electronic devices during flights.


101	1	Runner on the field during the "Shinnik" match
101	2	Certain details have become known about the identity of the fan who ran onto the field during the Russian Cup 1/16 final match between Yaroslavl's "Shinnik" and Moscow's "Spartak".
101	3	As the head of CDC RFU Artur Grigoryants stated  referring to data from the Interior Ministry, the fan is a Muscovite.
101	4	He is currently detained.
101	5	"In addition, Grigoryants told of how the fan managed to burst onto the field: "It emerged that this, let's call him spectator, got through to an ambulance in the accompaniment of two spectators citing heart problems.
101	6	He approached the ambulance - the ambulance doctor confirmed this to us.
101	7	And then he pushed away the two companions and ran to the field.
101	8	He ran from the corner of the Eastern and Southern stands to the corner of the Eastern and Northern stands.
101	9	He ran across the entire field.
101	10	The stewards are responsible for this.
101	11	Before the law on sports goes into effect, this is the zone of operations of stewards - the police cannot interfere with what is on the field.
101	12	He ran to the stands, climbed over the Eastern stands.
101	13	And at that time disruptions began in the Eastern stands and on the running lanes," stated the head of the CDC.
101	14	Let us recall that by decision of the CDC Moscow's "Spartak" will play the upcoming matches of the 15th round of the Russian championships against "Lokomotiv" and "Zenit" without spectators, and will pay a fine in the amount of 600 thousand rubles.


102	1	The ex-wife of Arshavin vacations with actor Andrei Chadov
102	2	The former common-law wife of St. Petersburg's "Zenit" footballer Andrei Arshavin Yulia Baranovskaya vacations together with actor Andrei Chadov.
102	3	Yulia vacations in Italy in the company of actress Anastasia Zadorozhnaya, her fiance - figure skater Sergei Slavnov, and actor Andrei Chadov.
102	4	Photos from joint strolls of the pairs were published on the Instagram of Anastasia Zadorozhnaya.
102	5	This is not the first joint photo of Andrei and Yulia.
102	6	On October 5 Zadorozhnaya published a photo on which the pair stands embraced on the shore of the Gulf of Finland in Komarovo.
102	7	In mid-October the halfback of "Zenit" Andrei Arshavin admitted that he lives separately from his common-law wife Yulia.
102	8	Let us recall that Yulia Baranovskaya and Andrei Arshavin were together since 2003, they have three children.
102	9	Recently it became known that Arshavin is dating former model Alisa Kazmina.
102	10	The new girlfriend of Arshavin had been married to a corporate executive.


103	1	The RF president created a separate ministry for construction, housing and public utilities
103	2	Russian president Vladimir Putin created a new ministry overseeing issues of construction and housing and public utilities and recommended former governor of Ivanov region Mikhail Men to head it during a personal meeting.
103	3	The president met with Mikhail Men at the residence in Novo-Ogarevo, and Men did not refuse to head the new agency.
103	4	The press secretary of the Russian president Dmitry Peskov explained that all functions concerning construction and housing and public utilities will pass to the new ministry from the Ministry of Regional Development.
103	5	Mikhail Men is the son of a well-known eastern orthodox minister archpriest Alexander Men, he graduated from the Moscow Institute of Petrochemistry n.a. Gubkin.
103	6	His political career began in 1995 - he was elected to the Moscow Regional Duma from Sergievo-Posadsky district, was deputy of the State Duma, the first deputy prime minister of the government of the Moscow region, deputy prime minister of the government of Moscow.
103	7	From 2005 through October 16, 2013 Mikhail Men was governor of Ivanov region.


104	1	Americans eavesdropped on high-ranking Japanese officials
104	2	On Friday, November 1, one of the representatives of American intelligence agencies who preferred to not disclose his name, claimed that the United States eavesdropped on the telephone conversations of high-ranking officials of Japan.
104	3	This person confirmed that in the land of the rising sun there are several sites intended for eavesdropping.
104	4	Moreover, he noted that the U.S.A., Great Britain, Australia, Canada, and New Zealand do not conduct reconnaissance operations against each other.
104	5	According to him, such was formed during the Second World War when these countries were allies.
104	6	However, Japan, like Germany, despite allied relations with the Americans in the post-war period, are targets for reconnaissance operations, reported the television channel NHK.
104	7	Officially, none of the parties has yet commented on this information.
104	8	Let us recall that news of surveillance by U.S. intelligence agencies against the chancellor of Germany emerged last week.
104	9	According to data from German journalists, the NSA could have wiretapped the telephone of Merkel over a period of the last ten years.
104	10	The chancellor herself, according to some reports, took the news of her wiretaps rather painfully.
104	11	She declared that such surveillance of a head of government by allies, who, according to her, Germany and the United States have been for decades, is unacceptable.
104	12	Meanwhile, Edward Snowden declared that he is ready to share details about the wiretapping of telephone conversations of Angela Merkel with employees of the German prosecutor's office.
104	13	A German specially flew to Moscow in order to meet with the former CIA employee.


105	1	A scandalous video has made its way to the police
105	2	The head of Toronto, Rob Ford, well-known for his scandals and openly reckless antics, was caught smoking crack.
105	3	The police of the Canadian city has announced that it possesses the corresponding video recording and is prepared to begin an investigation on the city's mayor.
105	4	CNN reports that the latter declared that he will not resign from his post .
105	5	Information that authorities have proof of consumption of narcotics by Rob Ford has appeared on the Toronto police website.
105	6	The head of local law enforcement agencies Bill Blair held a press conference on this issue.
105	7	The sheriff said that he is not authorized to share the particular video clips with the public, however he guarantees their existence.
105	8	According to Blair, the compromising video of Rob Ford was discovered during an anti-narcotics raid conducted by law enforcement officers in the summer of 2013.
105	9	The Canadian press had previously written about the existence of this video, however until recently there had been no confirmations.
105	10	The mayor himself does not provide any comments on this issue.
105	11	He only says that he is not guilty of anything and does not intend to resign.
105	12	The video recording discovered by the police is one piece of evidence in the case of the 35-year-old friend of Ford, Alexander Lisi, who is accused of soft narcotics dealing, extortion, illegall income acquisition, as well as criminal conspiracy.
105	13	At times Lisi served as the driver of Rob Ford.
105	14	City residents have long demanded the resignation of their mayor.
105	15	The latter repeatedly fought with journalists, appeared in public while drunk, took the liberty of making racist and sexist statements.


106	1	Diana Arbenina celebrated Halloween with her children
106	2	Diana Arbenina does not hide what a huge pleasure she receives from upbringing her children.
106	3	Despite the fact that right now Arbenina spends an especially large amount of time on creative work and social activity, she nonetheless finds the opportunity to busy oneself with Marta and Artyom, and not only spends time on their education, but also entertains them however possible.
106	4	Over the past week Diana twice provided an account of her pedagogical talents in front of her admirers.
106	5	At first she put out on Facebook a picture on which it is visible how she is teaching her children to read.
106	6	And yesterday she spoiled her fans with showing how she dressed up Artyom and Marta for Halloween.
106	7	Ready for the broom races! our first Halloween" - so named Diana the picture of her children dressed in holiday costumes.
106	8	Which is no wonder, after all they, like no other Russian little boys and little girls, bear a relation to this holiday since they were born in America.


107	1	An earthquake with a magnitude of 6.6 occurred on Thursday, October 31 near the city of Kokimbo in the central part of Chile, reports the agency Reuters.
107	2	The epicenter of the earthquake was located in the ocean at a depth of 10.7 kilometers and at a distance of 54 kilometers southwest of the city, as specified on the website of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS).
107	3	Tremors were registered at 20:03 local time (3:03 on November 1 Moscow time).
107	4	So far nothing is being reported regarding victims or destruction caused by the underground tremors.
107	5	Let us recall that Chile is located on one of the most seismically active regions of Earth, therefore earthquakes of various intensity there are not uncommon.
107	6	One of the most serious occurred in 2010.
107	7	At that time, an earthquake with a magnitude of 8.8 and the tsunami it caused resulted in the death of 550 people in Chile and the destruction of 220 thousand buildings.
107	8	Moreover, the most powerful earthquake in modern history occurred in Chile: in 1960 a magnitude of 9.5 was registered there.
107	9	More than five thousand people perished as a result of that natural disaster.


108	1	Open joint-stock company Rostovaeroinvest declared the German company Assmann Beraten + Planen as the winner in the tender to select the general designer of a facility.
108	2	At Rostovaeroinvest they are not disclosing the contract amount.
108	3	Based on information from the press service of the open joint-stock company, nine Russian and foreign companies participated in the tender, and according to the terms of the tender the design must be prepared and submitted for state expert review in the spring of 2014.
108	4	The winner will have to design a new passenger terminal for the airport, as well as infrastructure facilities, internal roads and landscaping for the airport complex.
108	5	During the first phase of construction, the interior area of the terminal will amount to 50 thousand square meters, with its possible future expansion.
108	6	Based on data from Rostovaeroinvest, prospects for development of the airport complex will be taken into account in the design project: by 2025 the terminal will be capable of providing service to around 5 million passengers, and by 2035 - 6 million passengers.
108	7	By the time the tender results were tallied, the architectural concept of the "Yuzhniy" air terminal complex, which was developed by the British company Twelve Architects, had been determined.
108	8	The design for the main terminal building embodies the concept of an air bridge between Rostov-on-Don and other cities of the world.
108	9	Assmann Beraten + Planen has experience implementing large-scale projects, the company designed terminals C and E of Sheremetyevo International Airport and the new air terminal complex at "Knevichi" international airport in Vladivostok.
108	10	The Yuzhniy international airport complex will be built in the Aksaysky district of the Rostov region and will replace the existing Rostov airport, which will be closed and ultimately integrated into urban development.
108	11	The start of construction of the air terminal complex is planned for 2014, the commissioning of all facilities - for 2017.


109	1	Experienced Italian workers make way for the young
109	2	Italian unemployment is breaking records.
109	3	Data published Wednesday showed that now 12.5% of country residents are unemployed.
109	4	Situation has not been this bad since the Second World War.
109	5	This indicator is several times higher among the youth.
109	6	40.4% of residents between the ages of 15 and 24 years have no employment.
109	7	According to Italian authorities, one of the solutions to this problem is early retirement of elderly workers.
109	8	Such an experiment is already being conducted by the largest energy company in the country, and the adopted laws allow regional authorities to provide for a portion of early retirement for experienced workers.
109	9	However, on the other hand, the common European problem of an aging population awaits Italy.
109	10	And economists are not sure that the plan with premature rotation of staff is paying off.


110	1	Syria destroyed equipment for chemical weapons
110	2	Syria destroyed all declared capacities for production of chemical weapons, acknowledged the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.
110	3	This first phase of disarmament Damascus completed the day before the established deadline.
110	4	Before November 1 Syria had to destroy production and other auxiliary facilities intended for preparing chemical warfare agents for use, reports the BBC.
110	5	Destruction of the stocks of poisonous substances themselves or their chemical components must be completed by the middle of 2014.
110	6	According to a representative of OPCW, currently the poisonous agents are located in sealed depots.
110	7	International inspectors headed to Syria after, according to the U.S., more than 1,400 people died during a chemical attack on the outskirts of Damascus on August 21.
110	8	The main objective of the inspectors was to not lose time - in order to not allow Syrian authorities to produce more chemical weapons - and destroy the infrastructure for mixing chemicals and loading ammunition.
110	9	Now they will attentively observe these production capacities in order to not allow their repair.
110	10	The next milestone - mid-November: by that time the OPCW and Syrians must agree to a detailed plan for destroying the already existing stocks of poisonous substances.
110	11	There are many questions here.
110	12	Where will they be destroyed?
110	13	Who will provide equipment for this?
110	14	All Syrian declarations will be thoroughly checked by western intelligence agencies.
110	15	They will readily recommend to the inspectors new facilities for inspection if there will be reasons to suspect that Damascus is not fully forthcoming.
110	16	The U.S. believes that this bombardment was conducted by regular troops.
110	17	Syria and Russia insist that it is the work of Syrian rebels.
110	18	The world community required from Syrian leadership - in accordance with the agreement achieved through the mediation of Russia, - to destroy or disable all capacities for the production of rounds, poisonous gases and liquids and for loading rounds with those substances.
110	19	Now, when this phase is over, the next step must be to destroy the chemical weapons already existing in the Syrian army.
110	20	It is assumed that in this arsenal may be more than 1,000 tons of neuroparalytic poisonous substances, skin blistering mustard gas and other banned chemical substances stored in several dozen different places.
110	21	For its destruction it is essential that the OPCW and Syrian authorities for a start agree on a schedule of actions - two weeks are allocated for this.
110	22	The supervisor of field operations of the OPCW Jerry Smith told the BBC that his inspectors "personally observed the destruction of equipment".
110	23	"They now have no capability to conduct further production or mixing of chemical weapons," he said.
110	24	The statement of the OPCW says that inspectors visited 21 of 23 facilities in Syria and made sure that factories producing rounds and poisonous substances either were destroyed or disabled.
110	25	The remaining two facilities are too dangerous to conduct an inspection there, it says in the document, but the equipment from there was transported and inspected by OPCW specialists.
110	26	According to Smith, the process of destroying the infrastructure for the production of chemical weapons was "especially difficult" since it was necessary to work under conditions of an ongoing conflict.
110	27	In the beginning of October the OPCW received the Nobel Peace Prize, however, according to Smith, so far inspectors found no time to celebrate this - they were too busy with work.


111	1	George Kerevan: Europe break-up gives Scots choice
111	2	Another day, another independence scare story.
111	3	This time we are warned that an independent Scotland would be required to join the Europe-wide free-travel zone as a condition of EU membership.
111	4	Cue stories about passport controls at Berwick and a barbed wire border along Hadrian's Wall.
111	5	True, the Strathclyde paper pointed out the possible economic benefits of freer movement with the rest of Europe, though - predictably - that did not figure in the headlines.
111	6	Nor did anyone point out that the EU member states spend much of their time bending their formal rules if it suits them.
111	7	Since Scotland isn't in the Schengen area now, continued non-compliance would be a cheap concession for Brussels to offer up in return for whatever it really wanted out of the Scots.
111	8	So, a non-story, then.
111	9	And one that is so long in the tooth it has become fossilised: I first heard the "independence means passport controls" canard at least 40 years ago.
111	10	Yet there is an interesting point lost in this retelling of a whiskery old tale.
111	11	Why should an independent Scotland be expected to do Europe's bidding, anyway?
111	12	Why trade London's yoke for that of Brussels, especially now?
111	13	Here is the real European news: the great, post-war plan to unite Europe has finally stalled.
111	14	With the euro crisis, Project Europe is officially dead.
111	15	Across the EU, parties which are dedicated to opposing the EU, or to scrapping the euro as a common currency, are gaining ground.
111	16	Even in Germany, the Eurosceptic Alternative for Germany Party - founded only this year - came from nowhere to grab nearly five million votes in September's federal elections, thus effectively knocking the Free Democrats (equivalent to our own Lib Dems) out of the Bundestag.
111	17	There has always been domestic opposition to the plan to create a federal Europe.
111	18	However, the current economic crisis has proved a watershed.
111	19	The austerity imposed by Berlin and the European Central Bank, coupled with the straitjacket imposed on national economies through adherence to the common currency, has led many people to think Project Europe has gone too far.
111	20	The crisis of the euro has little to do with national governments running excessive budget deficits - that was true only of Greece.
111	21	Rather, the euro system locked in its members at exchange rates favourable to German exporters - something German politicians want to keep.
111	22	Without the possibility of domestic currency devaluation, southern Europe finds itself with a built-in productivity disadvantage vis-à-vis Germany.
111	23	The only recourse is to slash wages and public spending - spurred on by Berlin.
111	24	Beyond the current budget and currency problems lies a deeper European productivity malaise.
111	25	As a result of "green" energy policies imposed by Brussels - code for subsidising French and German energy firms at the consumer's expense - European industry pays twice as much for electricity, and four times as much for gas, as in the United States.
111	26	That is a crippling cost disadvantage, as we've already seen at Grangemouth.
111	27	All the wage freezes in the world won't stop the European petrochemicals industry being hammered by cheap US shale gas.
111	28	As a result, revolt is brewing, especially in France, once the EU's main cheerleader.
111	29	After the war, the French political elite saw the EU as a vehicle to keep Germany in check, and to give Paris equal billing in the world with Washington.
111	30	But Berlin no longer needs Paris as a passport to political legitimacy and has imposed its own economic policy on Europe, leaving the battered French economy struggling.
111	31	Result: Marine Le Pen's right-wing, anti-EU National Front has just won a crucial by-election, knocking the ruling Socialists into third place.
111	32	The Front is now the most popular party in France with 24 per cent of the vote - a timely warning to British Labour that they can't assume a split on the right will automatically favour the left.
111	33	What is Le Pen doing with her newfound popularity among the French white, working class?
111	34	She wants to use next year's EU elections to create an anti-EU, anti-common currency bloc across the European Parliament.
111	35	If, as is very possible, anti-EU parties do well in these elections, such a bloc could dominate the European Parliament for the first time.
111	36	Here's my point: sometime soon growing anti-EU and anti-common currency feeling in Europe will coalesce to kill the euro.
111	37	The EU won't disappear, but it will revert to something more like the loose "Europe of the (Sovereign) Nations" favoured by General de Gaulle.
111	38	Germany and a few of its satellite economies might keep the euro but France and southern Europe will revive their own currencies.
111	39	I expect the UK will distance itself from this project, hoping to cosy up to the US.
111	40	However, Washington's growing interest in the Pacific suggests Britain will be left out in the Atlantic cold.
111	41	Where does this leave Scotland?
111	42	We can choose to be a region of (essentially) Little England.
111	43	Or we can defend our own economic interests - which includes telling Berlin and Brussels where to get off.
111	44	I suspect that Scotland could do well inside a looser European arrangement provided we kept our own currency.
111	45	Co-operation with other like-minded countries will be easier in a non-federal Europe of the Nations.
111	46	Otherwise we should consider emulating Norway and retaining our economic independence.
111	47	The SNP government in Scotland is - remarkably-- the most successful anti-austerity political movement in Europe, having won a spectacular majority in 2011 on the basis of opposing the cuts proposed (and implemented) by Labour's chancellor Alistair Darling and the subsequent Tory-Lib Dem coalition.
111	48	It would be ridiculous now for Scotland to vote for independence only to accept austerity imposed by Berlin and Brussels.


112	1	Australian woman appeals Thai jail time
112	2	A 21-year-old Sydney woman sentenced to 15 days jail in Phuket for falsely claiming she was assaulted by a taxi driver is appealing the verdict and has been granted bail.
112	3	Stevie Rochelle Bamford was initially found guilty by a Phuket provincial court on June 15 of making false claims after telling Thai police a local taxi driver, with two other men restraining her, carried out the assault in the early hours of Sunday June 10.
112	4	However, CCTV footage later revealed she had returned to her hotel safely after becoming separated from her Australian boyfriend.
112	5	Phuket police interviewed Bamford for two days before she confessed to fabricating the story.
112	6	She was held in local police cells before the court hearing.
112	7	Bamford was sentenced to serve the 15-day prison term at a low security detention centre on the outskirts of Phuket rather than in an adult women's jail.
112	8	She is the daughter of former Australian league player Peter Tunks, who has appealed to the Department of Foreign Affairs in Canberra to assist his daughter.
112	9	Tunks told Sydney's Sunday Telegraph the whole family was "extremely concerned" about his daughter's welfare and wanted her back in Australia.
112	10	"It's obviously been a worrying time but we're hopeful to have her back home safely as soon as possible," Tunks said.
112	11	Bamford is appealing the sentence and has been granted bail of 50,000 baht.
112	12	Reports in Australia said that in the meantime, she was holidaying at the resort area of Krabi in Southern Thailand.
112	13	Thai-based legal sources said Bamford was being represented by a local lawyer in Phuket but warned that the appeal may lead to the court increasing her sentence by up to two years and forcing her to serve it in an adult prison.
112	14	However, following the recent murder of Australian travel agent Michelle Smith in Phuket, Thailand may also be looking to repair its battered tourist image, leading to an acquittal.


113	1	The first boutique of Igor Gulyaev opened in Moscow
113	2	On October 23 the opening of the first flagship boutique of Igor Gulyaev took place in Moscow.
113	3	Designer Igor Gulyaev is known to a wide audience for his magnificent products made from luxury fur.
113	4	And now even more fashion worshipers will be able to value them - in Moscow finally opened his first boutique, for the occasion of which the designer threw a party in dolce vita style.
113	5	I am certain that the most beautiful women live in Russia.
113	6	For that reason I am especially happy that my store opened in Moscow.
113	7	It is not merely an office, but a place where there really is a part of me.
113	8	Precisely with these words Igor cut the red ribbon and invited all who wished... to try on appealing models!


114	1	Belarus and Turkey are interested in developing and deepening relations in all spheres and domains.
114	2	The minister of foreign affairs of Belarus Vladimir Makei informed journalists about this at a press conference at the end of the meeting with the minister of foreign affairs of Turkey Ahmet Davutoglu, reports a correspondent of BELTA.
114	3	We are very happy that our Turkish colleagues and partners at all levels are interested in developing and deepening Belarusian-Turkish relations in all spheres and domains.
114	4	Belarus on its part is also interested in this, therefore we agreed that the government administration agencies of the two countries will provide ubiquitous assistance and support to entrepreneurs that establish direct trade and economic contacts between themselves," noted Vladimir Makei.
114	5	He underscored that the government of Belarus will create for that all necessary conditions and provide maximal assistance.
114	6	The minister also reported that in Ankara was held the scheduled 8th meeting of the Belarusian-Turkish joint intergovernmental economic committee according to the results of which a protocol was signed.
114	7	The parties worked out a roadmap of Belarusian-Turkish interaction, which, according to the head of the Belarusian foreign policy agency, is aimed at deepening bilateral cooperation in trade and economic and investment domains, in spheres of industrial cooperation, transportation, agriculture, energy, as well as a search for new forms and areas of interaction.
114	8	"The protocol of the last meeting was fulfilled in full, and I am convinced that the current protocol also will be fulfilled, because Belarus and Turkey see each other as reliable partners," he said.
114	9	The minister of foreign affairs of Turkey Ahmet Davutogu in turn reported that at the successful negotiations the heads of the foreign policy agencies of the two countries decided to also further develop mutually advantageous cooperation and implement various projects.
114	10	According to the minister, it is necessary to increase the trade turnover between Belarus and Turkey, and drive it to an indicator of $1 billion.
114	11	Also Turkey is an important partner in the sphere of investment cooperation, which is necessary to develop further as well, since in this sphere there is unused potential, he believes.
114	12	Relations between our countries were always very warm, and we hope that in the future they will strengthen and expand even more.
114	13	And also all necessary conditions for trade and economic relations and for successful work of Turkish companies on the territory of Belarus and Belarusian enterprises and organizations in Turkey will be created," noted Ahmet Davutoglu.


115	1	As a result of a fire on Tverskaya Street four people were injured
115	2	As a result of a fire in a conduit in the center of Moscow on Tverskaya Street, four passersby were injured.
115	3	As reports Interfax citing a source in emergency services, one of the injured was hospitalized.
115	4	According to the source, the injured were passersby who were in the smoke-filled underground crossing during the fire.
115	5	As writes RIA Novosti citing the head of the capital's department of fuel and power facilities Pavel Livinsky, at this time power has been fully restored in all buildings on Tverskaya Street.
115	6	A fire in the thermal conduit near building 15 on Tverskaya Street occurred on the evening of October 31.
115	7	Strong smoke came from the manholes of the stormwater drainage system, and blanketing smoke formed in the underground crossing located near the "Armenia" store.
115	8	As a result of the fire, 11 buildings on Tverskaya Street were cut off power.
115	9	At 21:45 Moscow time the fire was extinguished.


116	1	Arctic Monkeys postpone Glasgow gig due to Alex Turner's illness
116	2	Rock band the Arctic Monkeys have postponed a gig in Glasgow after their lead singer was diagnosed with laryngitis.
116	3	The Sheffield group were scheduled to perform at the Hydro venue in the city on Friday.
116	4	However, lead singer Alex Turner's illness has forced them to reschedule the show.
116	5	The band's announcement came after they were forced to similarly postpone a gig at the LG Arena in Birmingham on Thursday.
116	6	In a statement on their official website, the Arctic Monkeys said: "Following the decision to postpone the show at the Birmingham LG Arena tonight and after seeking medical advice, Arctic Monkeys must also postpone the show at the Glasgow Hydro on Friday, November 1."
116	7	"Alex Turner has been diagnosed with laryngitis and is regrettably not able to perform."
116	8	The show at the LG Arena in Birmingham will now take place on November 20 and the show at the Glasgow Hydro will now take place on November 21.
116	9	All tickets remain valid for these shows.
116	10	We wish to apologise to all ticket holders for any inconvenience this has caused.
116	11	Please contact the customer services at the box office you purchased your tickets from for any further assistance.


117	1	On October 31 Barnaul police discovered two gambling halls.
117	2	The first one operated in the Industrial district on Vzletnaya street.
117	3	A game was underway in the facility during the inspection.
117	4	There were 24 machines in the club.
117	5	Another gambling club was discovered in the Lenin district on Anton Petrov street.
117	6	Here they used 20 gambling machines.
117	7	The Barnaul administration of the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs reports that administrative materials have been compiled based on the article "Unlawfully organizing and conducting gambling".
117	8	Equipment was confiscated.
117	9	Soon materials on these facts will be sent to the courts of the Industrial and Lenin districts of the city.


118	1	Driving schools will be able to conduct examinations for receiving drivers' licenses
118	2	Private companies possessing their own computerized motordrome will be able to hold exams for drivers' licenses.
118	3	This is reported by "Kommersant" citing the draft government resolution "On permission to drive vehicles".
118	4	As the newspaper writes, currently in Russia there are only around 30 such motordromes.
118	5	It is assumed that the results of internal testing will be counted for students of such "privileged" driving schools.
118	6	Moreover, every six months the State Automobile Inspectorate will monitor the passing of examinations.
118	7	If it turns out that students do not pass more than 30% of exams on theory and more than 20% ground exams on the first try, such a school will be deprived of privileges for six months.
118	8	The technical requirements of motordromes contained in the draft government resolution take effect starting November 5, 2014.
118	9	The draft also contains the requirements for teaching driving on two-wheeled machinery.
118	10	Starting January 1, 2015 owners of motorcycles will have to pass an exam in conditions of city traffic to receive category A licenses.
118	11	In addition, starting May 5, 2014 companies will not be able to hire foreign drivers with foreign licenses.
118	12	Such employees will have to receive Russian licenses after passing the exam.


119	1	Early puberty: Growing older sooner
119	2	African-American and Hispanic girls tend to reach puberty earlier than their white counterparts, research shows.
119	3	Physical changes don't mean puberty is imminent
119	4	There's no evidence that hormones or other chemicals are to blame
119	5	Experts think the obesity epidemic might be one trigger of early puberty
119	6	The trend toward early puberty is not as pronounced with boys
119	7	Former CNN correspondent Pat Etheridge is a journalist specializing in children's health and family issues.
119	8	Should a mother be alarmed if her daughter begins to sprout breast buds and pubic hair at 7 or 8?
119	9	At the annual conference of the American Academy of Pediatrics this week in Orlando, Florida, pediatric endocrinologist Dr. Paul Kaplowitz explained that these early physical changes are quite common among American girls and represent a new norm.
119	10	"I spend a lot of time reassuring parents -- usually, this does not signal a rapid progression into full puberty," said Kaplowitz.
119	11	Obvious signs of development, such as budding breasts, pubic and underarm hair and body odor are appearing sooner in girls.
119	12	But there has been only a slight shift in the age of menarche (the first period) over the past four decades.
119	13	In the United States, the average age is 12.5 years, down from 12.75 in 1970.
119	14	"Once breasts begin to develop, it takes at least two to three years before menarche," said Kaplowitz, also author of "Early Puberty in Girls: The Essential Guide to Coping with This Common Problem."
119	15	Time is the most accurate test of how puberty is going to progress.
119	16	There is debate about what constitutes the actual onset of puberty, but it is considered "precocious" when breast enlargement is accompanied by a growth spurt before age 8.
119	17	In most cases, the process will slow down or stall -- something a pediatrician can monitor closely.
119	18	A more rapid progression may warrant tests by an endocrinologist to rule out serious problems such as tumors or cysts.
119	19	There are treatments to delay early menses and ward off another consequence: premature aging of the bones that ultimately can lead to stunted growth and being short as an adult.
119	20	Recommendations for drug or hormone therapy are based on the child's age, rate of development, growth rate and emotional maturity.
119	21	Psychosocial aspects are important, too.
119	22	Kaplowitz is cautious with medication but acknowledges, "suppressing puberty may alleviate behavioral issues and girls' feelings of being different from peers."
119	23	The other big issue is understandable: Parents simply don't want their very young daughters having periods.
119	24	"They worry about the risk of pregnancy or even how they will handle hygiene," said Kaplowitz.
119	25	"It was a shock," recalls one woman whose daughter started her period at 10.
119	26	Even though there were signs and we had talked about menstruation, she was not emotionally prepared.
119	27	She came home from school scared and upset to be the first among her friends.
119	28	There are lots of well-publicized theories about the causes of precocious puberty.
119	29	Yet, there's no consistent body of evidence that hormones in milk or other foods, chemicals in the environment or sexual messages in the media are to blame.
119	30	Boys - like girls - are hitting puberty earlier.
119	31	Kaplowitz contends the premise that holds the most weight is the epidemic of obesity.
119	32	He helped conduct a 2001 study of 6- to 9-year-old girls that links body fat to the timing of puberty.
119	33	Other findings support this conclusion, but there are many other contributing factors.
119	34	In this country, African-American and Hispanic girls tend to reach puberty earlier than their white counterparts.
119	35	There are varying explanations.
119	36	Globally, patterns of early puberty appear to be influenced by everything from economic conditions to climate to genes.
119	37	Another conundrum: Although boys are getting facial and pubic hair at younger ages, the trend toward full-blown early puberty is not as pronounced as it is with girls.
119	38	Other doctors attending the AAP conference reinforced the complexities of the topic.
119	39	The appearance of acne and pubic hair is common even in infants and toddlers.
119	40	"We need to be careful about how we identify the true onset of puberty," said Dr. Lawrence Silverman, a pediatric endocrinologist at Goryeb Children's Hospital in Morristown, New Jersey.
119	41	Parents should not hesitate to get guidance from their pediatrician about how to talk with their child.
119	42	"It may mean having a sooner-than-expected conversation," Kaplowitz advised.
119	43	If you remain calm, your child usually will respond well.
119	44	Girls who blossom early need reassurance that, even when it happens ahead of schedule, the process is a normal part of life.


120	1	The head of Dagestan hears notes of extremism in the hymn of Kuban
120	2	The football match between "Anzhi" and "Kuban" resulted in a political conflict between authorities of Krasnodar Territory and Dagestan after fans burned the Dagestan flag, and the hymn of Kuban began to sound different.
120	3	The head of Dagestan Ramazan Abdulatipov on Thursday motioned Republic parliament members to take legal action because the hymn of Krasnodar Territory supposedly resounds with appeals for interethnic discord, in particular calls for war with "infidels".
120	4	Take the hymn of Krasnodar Territory, they approved this hymn in our generation in 1995.
120	5	This is a shame, and no one is taking this up.
120	6	"About you here remembering, like about native mother, to the enemy, to the infidel we go for mortal combat" - why write such words in a hymn, bait some believers against other believers," chairman of parliament Khizri Shikhsaidov expressed solidarity with Abdulatipov.


121	1	RBS suspends two forex traders
121	2	Royal Bank of Scotland has suspended two traders in its foreign exchange division according to two people familiar with the situation, in another sign that the global probe by regulators into the suspected manipulation of the currency market is rapidly gaining traction.
121	3	Some of the world's largest banks, including UBS, Barclays, Deutsche Bank and RBS, have confirmed they are co-operating with regulators in investigations into the world's largest financial market, where $5.3tn changes hands each day.
121	4	The two traders would be the first RBS employees to be suspended in the widening probe that echoes the Libor interbank lending manipulation scandal.
121	5	The bank, which declined to comment on the suspensions, confirmed this month that it has received requests for information from regulators.
121	6	"Our ongoing inquiry into this matter continues and we are co-operating fully with the FCA and our other regulators," the bank said two weeks ago.
121	7	Last month, people close to the situation said that RBS had turned over records of emails and instant messages to the UK regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, sent to and from a former trader.
121	8	This trader, Richard Usher, left RBS in 2010 and is understand to have be given leave from his current position as European head of forex spot trading at JPMorgan.
121	9	Rohan Ramchandani, head of European spot trading at Citi, went on leave this week, while Matt Gardiner, a former senior currencies trader at Barclays and UBS, was suspended by Standard Chartered this week.
121	10	None of these traders have been accused of any wrongdoing.
121	11	Mr Usher's instant message group included bankers at Barclays and Citigroup, people close to the situation said.
121	12	UBS said this week it had taken action against some of its employees after the Swiss regulator, Finma, said it was investigating suspected manipulation of the foreign exchange market at a number of Swiss banks.
121	13	At least six authorities globally - the European Commission, Finma, Switzerland's competition authority Weko, the FCA, the Department of Justice in the US and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority - are looking at allegations that bankers colluded to move the currencies market.
121	14	HSBC, Citigroup, JPMorgan and Credit Suisse have also launched internal probes or received requests for information from regulators, said people familiar with the situation.
121	15	Banks are scouring through years" worth of instant messages and emails to search for instances of wrongdoing.
121	16	News about the probes has rattled traders in an area that has been one of the bigger profit drivers of investment banks' trading units in past years but which has been challenged this year as low volatility in currencies cuts opportunities for speculators.
121	17	Some bankers have tried to play down the affair by saying the vast and highly liquid foreign exchange market is almost impossible to manipulate, but senior traders are saying this is not necessarily true.
121	18	A senior trader said that despite the huge volume of daily foreign exchange trading, the fragmentation of liquidity between different trading platforms and banks" increasing use of their own internal platforms meant that "you can start to get an impact on the market at quite small ticket prices."
121	19	The news came on the same day as Credit Suisse announced it had dismissed a trader at its London exchange traded funds desk this week after he had caused a nearly $6m loss late last year.
121	20	The bank promptly notified the relevant authorities and has been co-operating with its regulators.
121	21	"We are confident the trader acted alone and that the matter has been contained," Credit Suisse said.


122	1	Supreme Court upholds Obama health care law
122	2	In a major victory for the Obama administration, the US Supreme Court today ruled Barack Obama's signature health care law is constitutional.
122	3	By a 5-4 vote, the justices ruled the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act's individual mandate - which requires citizens to buy health insurance by 2014 or else pay a penalty - was constitutional under the taxing power of the government.
122	4	Chief Justice John Roberts sided with the four more liberal members of the court while Justices Scalia, Thomas, Alito and Kennedy dissented.
122	5	The court also upheld the remaining sections of the 2700 page law, and further held that the health care law's requirement that states increase Medicaid eligibility or else lose all federal Medicaid funding is not unconstitutionally coercive.
122	6	The suit to block the law was brought by 26 states and the National Federation of Independent Business.
122	7	The law was vigorously opposed by each of the major Republican presidential candidates during the 2012 primary season, including presumptive nominee Mitt Romney.


123	1	Tickets to Heihe will cost tourists 2,200 rubles
123	2	Starting tomorrow, hovercraft will begin to carry tourists from Blagoveschensk to Heihe.
123	3	This means additional expenses for those who wish to travel to China
123	4	A ticket on a panther traditionally costs significantly more than a motor ship.
123	5	As reported in the reference service of the company "AmurASSO", the cost of a regular ticket will equal 2,200 rubles.
123	6	Travel via the luxury lounge will cost 2,800 rubles.
123	7	By the way, this season tickets have not become more expensive: Panthers carried tourists for the same price last spring and a year ago in the fall.


124	1	The FAA is easing restrictions on the use of electronic gadgets on airplanes - though chatting on cellphones will still be prohibited.
124	2	Warplanes attack a store of Russian missiles in the port city of Latakia, an official says.
124	3	It's an apparent continuation of Israel's campaign to keep arms from proliferating in the Mideast.
124	4	A federal appeals court blocks a judge's ruling that the NYPD's controversial tactic discriminates against minorities.
124	5	Nearly 100 African migrants hoping to travel to Algeria die of thirst after their two trucks break down in the middle of the Sahara.
124	6	Experts say violence that left 14 adults and seven children dead is nothing more than random chance, not a sign of growing violence in America.
124	7	Rather than being rattled by the U.S. government shutdown, investors kept their focus on what probably matters more: the Federal Reserve.
124	8	The California woman plans to challenge what may be a first-of-its-kind citation, saying the Internet-connected eyewear makes navigation easier.
124	9	Police say they have a video that appears to show Mayor Rob Ford smoking a crack pipe.
124	10	Even close allies keep things from one another - and work every angle to find out what's being held back.
124	11	The Vatican wants to know how Catholic parishes around the globe handle sensitive issues like contraception, divorce and gay couples.


125	1	The "Russian march" is becoming more popular
125	2	On November 4, on National Unity Day, the Russian march approved by the mayor's office will take place in Moscow.
125	3	According to a survey by "Levada-center", support of "Russian marches" is growing - already 40% of citizens to various degrees approve the idea of their implementation.
125	4	According to "Levada-center", 40% of citizens to various degrees approve the staging of "Russian marches": of them 11% perceive such actions definitively positive and 29% - "mostly positive".
125	5	The popularity of the idea of "Russian marches" is gradually growing - in 2006 only 14% of Russians welcomed these actions, but in December of 2010 already twice as many citizens (28%) supported the staging of such events.
125	6	Only 7% of Russians perceive the "Russian marches" "definitively negative", "mostly negative" - 19%.
125	7	Another 35% could not formulate their stance on this action.
125	8	This year, the mayor of Moscow approved the staging of the "Russian march" numbering up to 15 thousand people in Lyublino, this was reported today by the head of the capital's security department Aleksei Mayorov.
125	9	This action of nationalists takes place every year on National Unity Day since 2005.
125	10	In response to the question of sociologists "Have you heard that on November 4 in Russia "Russian marches" are carried out under slogans of protecting the rights of Russians in Russia? three-quarters (75%) of citizens answered negatively.
125	11	Now only every fifth Russian (20%) knows about this action.
125	12	It is noteworthy that in December of 2010 almost a third of citizens (31%) had heard about the "Russian marches".
125	13	Let us recall that three years ago on December 11 on Manezhnaya Square there was a spontaneous rally of nationalists that degenerated into mass riots.
125	14	"Levada-center" also asked Russians about which holiday is celebrated on November 4.
125	15	In two years the number of those who know the correct answer (National Unity Day) increased from 41% to 49%.
125	16	However, only 15% of citizens intend to celebrate this holiday.
125	17	Approximately just as many (17%) intend to celebrate November 7 October Revolution Day.
125	18	Most citizens (62%) do not intend to celebrate any one of these holidays.
125	19	How the mayor's office approved the "Russian march" in Lyublino
125	20	On October 28 the capital's authorities approved the staging of a "Russian march" on November 4 in Lyublino.
125	21	This was reported by the leader of the "Russians" association, march organizer Dmitry Demushkin.
125	22	Besides the procession in Lyublino, on National Unity Day a rally and rock concert by the group "Kolovrat" will take place, also approved by authorities.
125	23	How "Russian march-2012" went
125	24	On National Unity Day in 2012 nationalists moved in procession from Yakimanskaya Embankment to the Central House of the Artists where the rally took place.
125	25	Organizers estimated the number of attendees at 20 thousand people, the Ministry of Internal Affairs gave the number 6 thousand.


126	1	Snowden is expressing willingness to touch base with German authorities with regard to wiretaps
126	2	The former CIA employee Edward Snowden expresses willingness to go to Germany as soon as a legal possibility arises for him to do that, and to meet with representatives of German authorities, reports RIA Novosti.
126	3	A letter from the former CIA employee to German authorities at a meeting with journalists in Berlin on Friday was presented by Bundestag deputy Hans-Christian Stroebele, through whom Snowden forwarded a message to German authorities.
126	4	Stroebele met with Snowden in Moscow the day before.


127	1	Today it is not the quantity of available medical facilities and their status that is important to the people, but the quality of rendered medical assistance.
127	2	Implementation of the program "Modernization of healthcare of the Tula region for 2011-2013", reorganization of medical facilities of our city will help create the optimal structure for provision of medical care to the people, including gynecological patients, pregnant and birthing mothers.
127	3	Thus, after merging with the city hospital there emerged a greater opportunity to attract specialized experts from the State Healthcare Institution "NGKB" for consultations of pregnant women with various pathologies, to conduct additional examinations based in a hospital.
127	4	During implementation of the modernization program, the material and technical resources of the maternity clinic were significantly improved, modern equipment compliant with world standards emerged.
127	5	Over these years nearly 8 million rubles were allocated for capital repairs of rooms, 112 units of equipment were acquired for a total of 42 million rubles.
127	6	The intensive care unit for newborns is equipped with the most modern equipment.
127	7	In the operating room when conducting Cesarean sections they use a "Cell Saver" machine that makes it possible to collect blood from an operating wound and after special treatment return it to the birthing mother, avoiding transfusion of allogenic blood.
127	8	The clinical laboratory diagnostics unit is also equipped with modern equipment.
127	9	Electronic registration is functional in the maternity welfare unit, in the near future it is planned to introduce electronic charts and medical histories of patients.
127	10	Thanks to development of telemedicine, the capability has emerged for consultation of gynecological patients, pregnant women, birthing mothers and newborns with specialists from the regional center.


128	1	Chechens beat up and robbed 60 prostitutes in Strasbourg
128	2	Natives of Chechnya were arrested by French police on suspicion of serial attacks on prostitutes.
128	3	An investigation has been conducted since March of this year.
128	4	Approximately 60 women complained about the actions of the Chechens.
128	5	Reportedly, the bandits ordered prostitutes to one of the Strasbourg hotels and then beat and robbed them.
128	6	The head of the gang was a 27-year-old native of Chechnya with a prior record.


129	1	Venezuela will establish an exchange rate for tourists
129	2	Venezuela will introduce a special exchange rate for its national currency - the bolivar - against the dollar for tourists.
129	3	This was reported on November 1 by the agency Bloomberg citing the government decree.
129	4	Foreign travelers will be permitted to exchange amounts equivalent to ten thousand American dollars per year.
129	5	Venezuela will also allow tourists to sell up to 25 percent of the bolivars they acquired in the country when departing.
129	6	The precise rate of bolivars against the dollar will be established later.
129	7	In February, Caracas was forced to devalue the local currency to 6.3 bolivars per dollar.
129	8	However, on the black market one dollar is valued at 57 bolivars.
129	9	Since the start of the year, the bolivar has lost almost 70 percent of its value.
129	10	In September, inflation in Venezuela amounted to almost 50 percent.
129	11	The minister of the oil industry and vice president of economics Rafael Ramirez on October 18 announced that Venezuela has no plans to devalue the bolivar.
129	12	According to unofficial data, which the agency cited, Caracas could nonetheless decide to reduce the rate of the national currency after municipal elections in December.
129	13	The policy of restraining prices on products and goods of mass consumption, as well as the high level of over-regulation of the Venezuelan economy have led to a deficit of a number of goods and to the functioning of a black currency market.
129	14	In the spring of this year, mass media reported that a shortage of toilet paper was noted in Venezuela.


130	1	John Kerry says US spying has "reached too far inappropriately" in unprecedented admission
130	2	John Kerry has indicated a softening of the U.S's defensive stance on its surveillance programmes with an unprecedented admission that on occasions its spying has "reached too far inappropriately."
130	3	The Secretary of State also admitted that he'd been guilty, along with Barack Obama, of being on "automatic pilot" as incendiary revelations from whistleblower Edward Snowden about the NSA's spying activities emerged.
130	4	The leaks have put the US government at the centre of a diplomatic storm with its allies.
130	5	Speaking to an open government conference in London via video link, Mr Kerry said: "There is no question that the President and I and others in government have actually learned of some things that had been happening on an automatic pilot because the ability has been there, going back to World War Two and to the very difficult years of the Cold War, and then, of course, 9/11."
130	6	He then became the first high-ranking member of the U.S government to admit that US spying had crossed the line, but emphasised that no one's rights had been abused.
130	7	He said: "In some cases, it has reached too far inappropriately."
130	8	And the President is determined to try to clarify and make clear for people and is now doing a thorough review in order that nobody will have the sense of abuse.
130	9	I assure you innocent people are not being abused in this process.
130	10	Mr Kerry insisted, however, that the NSA was a force for good and that its surveillance operations had saved many lives.
130	11	He added: "We're dealing in a new world where people are willing to blow themselves up."
130	12	There is radical extremism in the world that is hell-bent and determined to try to kill people and blow people up and attack governments.
130	13	So what if you were able to intercept that and stop it before it happens?
130	14	We have actually prevented airplanes from going down, buildings from being blown up, and people from being assassinated because we've been able to learn ahead of time of the plans.
130	15	Meanwhile, U.S. lawmakers will head to Europe to help address concerns abroad about alleged U.S. spying and convince the Europeans of the need to continue joint anti-terrorism efforts with the U.S., the chairman of a Senate subcommittee on European affairs said on Thursday.
130	16	Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut said he spoke with European Parliament members and others this week and is concerned about their threats to stop participating in anti-terrorist organizations because of frustration over surveillance by the National Security Agency.
130	17	"It's really important for U.S. national security interests for Europeans to stay on board with us with respect to our mutual anti-terrorism endeavors," Murphy, a first-term Democrat and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on European Affairs, said in an interview from Washington.
130	18	And I'm going to Europe to make it clear to them that we need to continue to work together in combatting terrorism, notwithstanding their anger over these NSA programs.
130	19	News reports that the NSA swept up millions of phone records in Europe have frayed relations with some U.S. allies, though the agency's chief said this week that they were inaccurate and reflected a misunderstanding of metadata that Nato allies collected and shared with the United States.
130	20	Other revelations cited documents leaked by Snowden that the NSA monitored German Chancellor Angela Merkel's cellphone and those of up to 34 other world leaders.
130	21	The national intelligence director, James Clapper, defended spying on allies as necessary and said it's commonplace on both sides.
130	22	Amid the uproar, Murphy said his office is arranging the congressional trip, expected to take place this year, and hopes the delegation will include members of both parties and both chambers.
130	23	Names of other participating lawmakers were to be released in coming days.
130	24	He said the itinerary is still being worked out.
130	25	While Murphy said the purpose of the trip is to help improve relationships, he said some "tough love" will also be dispensed.
130	26	He said European leaders need to be honest with their own people about the kind of espionage programs they've used for years themselves.
130	27	"While we can amend our surveillance programs to better protect the rights of Europeans, they also need to come to terms with the fact that we're not the only ones that are out there spying," Murphy said.
130	28	Meanwhile, Mr Kerry is scheduled to head this weekend to the Middle East and Poland to address rancor over U.S. strategies in the Syria, Egypt and Iran as well as U.S. surveillance activities.


131	1	In the U.S. a school principal shot at teenagers.
131	2	Teenagers literally drove a principal of one American high school to desperation.
131	3	The man, according to him, was compelled to take up a weapon and begin to shoot.
131	4	The incident occurred in the state of Tennessee.
131	5	As the New York Post writes, the juvenile hooligans rolled the man's house with toilet paper.
131	6	Because of this, the school principal opened fire on the teenagers, as a result of which a 15-year-old boy received several wounds in the leg and arm.
131	7	Since the hooligans were not on the territory of the principal's property, he was charged with aggravated assault.
131	8	The man was released on bail of $125 thousand.
131	9	Let us note that the shooting of civilians in the U.S. is becoming a frightening regularity.
131	10	Literally the day before a man opened fire directly at passersby on the street in the center of the city of Ridgecrest in the American state of California.
131	11	Afterwards, the criminal took two random passersby hostage, hid them in the trunk of a car and attempted to escape.
131	12	Previously in an elementary school of the city of Newtown, state of Connecticut, a shooting occurred.
131	13	The mother of Adam worked in the school, she was a teacher.
131	14	Shooting in an American school: a 14-year-old girl was wounded
131	15	Another shooting incident occurred on January 31 in an American school, this time in Atlanta (state of Georgia).
131	16	Two people were injured: a 14-year-old schoolgirl and teacher.


132	1	China plea paper 'to be overhauled'
132	2	A Chinese newspaper that made a front-page appeal for the release of a reporter accused of defamation is to be overhauled, a press regulator says.
132	3	The Guangzhou-based New Express made a rare public plea for the release of journalist Chen Yongzhou.
132	4	But Mr Chen subsequently admitted on television that he had taken bribes to fabricate stories about a part state-owned company.
132	5	Now the New Express is to undergo "full rectification," the regulator said.
132	6	The "rectification" order came from the Guangdong Administration of Press and Publication, Radio, Film and Television.
132	7	A preliminary investigation showed that Yangcheng Evening News Group's New Express had published several untrue reports about listed company Zoomlion in the period of September 2012 to August 2013.
132	8	"New Express's editorial management was disordered," the regulator said in a statement.
132	9	It said it had decided to "impose an administrative penalty on Chen Yongzhou by revoking his reporter's license."
132	10	It had also "instructed Yangcheng Evening News Group to undertake a complete rectification of New Express, and recommended they investigate the relevant responsible persons at New Express and immediately revise New Express's leadership team."
132	11	Mr Chen wrote several articles for the New Express alleging financial irregularities at a construction-equipment company called Zoomlion.
132	12	After he was detained, his newspaper published two front-page appeals for his release, saying it backed his journalism.
132	13	But Mr Chen then appeared on state television admitting he had published false stories for money.
132	14	"In this case I've caused damages to Zoomlion and also the whole news media industry and its ability to earn the public's trust," he told state broadcaster CCTV.
132	15	I did this mainly because I hankered after money and fame.
132	16	I've realised my wrongdoing.
132	17	Following Mr Chen's apology, New Express issued a front-page apology, saying it had failed to properly check his reports.
132	18	Several high-profile suspects have made televised confessions recently.
132	19	Experts say confessions are still routinely coerced, despite a change in the law earlier this year banning the authorities from forcing anyone to incriminate themselves.


133	1	Due to mischief of evil spirits several schools and a hospital had to be closed
133	2	Four schools in the Zimbabwean province Southern Matabeleland had to be closed because students were attacked by... goblins.
133	3	As the local elder recounted, children fell into panic, and it proved impossible to continue studies.
133	4	The story of goblins may sound like the fabrication of a child for a European, however in Africa it is quite a serious argument for closing a school.
133	5	Adults also fear evil spirits.
133	6	In summer, for example, in Zimbabwe a hospital was closed because goblins also attacked medical personnel.


134	1	Fire crews called to rescue lost puppy after she got stuck 50ft above the ground on precarious ledge in a quarry
134	2	Cocker spaniel Ruby had run off after she was in a minor road crash
134	3	She was spotted three days later by a dog walker trapped in the quarry
134	4	Firefighters abseil down cliff face to pluck the dog from certain death
134	5	A puppy had a lucky escape after fire crews were called to lift her to safety when she somehow got herself stuck 50ft up on a precarious cliff ledge.
134	6	Nine month-old cocker spaniel Ruby had run off after being involved in a road crash on Sunday afternoon and survived three days alone before being rescued from a quarry on Wednesday.
134	7	Her owners Scott Alderson, 25, and his girlfriend Becky Hall, 20, were at Flappit Quarry in Denholme, West Yorkshire, to be reunited with Ruby and have thanked West Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service.
134	8	They had searched frantically for their missing dog and posted appeals on social networking sites after she had ran into the quarry following the minor accident.
134	9	At around 2.15pm on Wednesday, an eagle-eyed dog walker spotted Ruby on the ledge in the quarry, stranded 50ft up.
134	10	A Technical Rescue Team from Cleckheaton Fire Station rushed to the scene and abseiled down to rescue Ruby and used a pet tube to transport her up the cliff.
134	11	Specialist Technical Rescue Officer Andy Clayton said: 'She was in a precarious situation.
134	12	She was right in the middle of the cliff face - 50ft from the top and bottom.
134	13	She did not move a muscle during the rescue - she was frozen solid.
134	14	But she is fine now.
134	15	She was eating biscuits afterwards.
134	16	This was a very unusual call-out.
134	17	The fact that the dog was spotted is unbelievable.
134	18	Specialist Technical Rescue Officer Peter Lau said: "Ruby had a very lucky escape."
134	19	The potential was there that she could have been very seriously injured or worse.
134	20	Ruby was taken to the vets for a check-up and was found to be fine other than exhaustion and dehydration.
134	21	Miss Hall, from Halifax, West Yorkshire, said: "Watching the rescue was terrifying."
134	22	I could not believe that she was up there in the first place.
134	23	It was amazing to get her back in our arms.
134	24	The vet said that if she became too exhausted and collapsed she would probably have fallen.
134	25	The firefighters were amazing.
134	26	It was really daring what they did.
134	27	We are just so grateful and every single one of them was absolutely tremendous.
134	28	Mr Alderson, from Keighley, added: "We were scared that she might fall but she stayed there."
134	29	The firefighters were brilliant.
134	30	I just can't believe where she was.


135	1	Thought travel agents were a thing of the past thanks to the internet?
135	2	Flight Centre seem to be bucking the trend.
135	3	The company has upgraded its full year profit forecast and is looking to record earnings from holidaymakers in Australia and the United Kingdom.
135	4	The travel company now expects its full year underlying profit before tax to be between $325 million and $340 million, compared with the $305 million to $315 million it previously forecast.
135	5	If the current guidance is achieved it will represent a 12 to 17 per cent growth on the record $290.4 million profit it achieved in 2011/12.
135	6	Managing director Graham Turner said Flight Centre had made 8 per cent profit in the first half and had started the second half strongly especially in Australian and UK non-business travel.
135	7	"Year-to-date, our 10 countries are profitable and several are on track for record full-year earnings before interest and tax contributions," he said.
135	8	This includes Australia and the United Kingdom, which are typically our largest profit generators.
135	9	In Australia the leisure business rebounded during the second half which offset a slightly weaker domestic corporate travel market.
135	10	Similarly in the UK, Flight Centre's leisure business performed well while corporate clients were spending less.
135	11	Its US business had recovered its losses during its seasonally weaker first half and was expected to deliver its third consecutive full year profit.
135	12	Flight Centre shares were up 3c at $38.20 yesterday.


136	1	The website of the Ministry of Defense of Estonia was restored after the attack of Ukrainian hackers
136	2	Operation of the website of the Ministry of Defense of Estonia has been restored after the morning cyber attack, reports the agency's press office.
136	3	According to the vice chancellor of the Ministry of Defense for informational and administrative issues Taimar Peterkop, it was a primitive attack, the website was simply overloaded with a large number of requests.
136	4	Our specialists quickly fixed everything, at this time operation of the site has been restored.
136	5	"The damage inflicted on the ministry is minimal," Peterkop said to the publication Postimees.
136	6	According to Peterkop, so far it is early to talk about who organized the attacks.
136	7	"We will certainly analyze the causes of the incident and we will draw conclusions from that, but it is impossible to completely prevent similar incidents," he admitted.
136	8	Let us recall that on November 1 the group Anonymous Ukraine posted an online message in which it confirmed the hacker attack on the website of the Ministry of Defense of Estonia and opposed the partnership of Ukraine and NATO.
136	9	We want the leaders of NATO to hear our voice, the voice of the Ukrainian people.
136	10	We must not be servants of NATO.
136	11	Ukrainians do not want to die for the interests of member countries of NATO.
136	12	Ukraine does not need the NATO alliance.
136	13	Ukraine does not need the European Union.
136	14	Ukraine does not need Russia either.
136	15	Ukraine must not be anyone's slave.
136	16	We stand for an independent Ukraine.
136	17	"Hands off Ukraine," it says in the announcement of Anonymous.
136	18	Previously the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine reported that a marine company from the Feodosia detached battalion of marines will take part in command staff exercises of NATO reaction forces Steadfast Jazz-2013.


137	1	Japan will discuss with Russia the issue of concluding a peaceful agreement
137	2	The head of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign affairs Fumio Kisida met with the minister of foreign affairs of Russia Sergei Lavrov in order to discuss issues related to concluding a peaceful agreement between the two countries.
137	3	"We would like to openly exchange opinions on issues of further development of political dialog, discuss issues related to concluding a peaceful agreement," Kisida announced at the meeting.
137	4	The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Japan recalled that after the Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe visited Russia, relations between the countries became warmer and acquired a bilateral character.
137	5	The Russian minister, in turn, noted that the RF will accommodate Japan in resolving complex political issues, writes RIA Novosti.
137	6	Conclusion of a peaceful agreement between Japan and Russia implies solutions to the issue of the disputed Northern territories.
137	7	In connection with this, protest actions demanding to give back the country lands lost after the Second World War are taking place in Tokyo today.
137	8	Through the Japanese capital ride cars from which by loudspeaker blares: "Give back the northern territories!".
137	9	Police do not stop the protesters, they ensure that the noise level is not exceeded.


138	1	Halloween 2013: By the Numbers
138	2	When I was little, Halloween was magical.
138	3	My sister and I were allowed to eat candy, stay up late and play dress-up for the neighborhood.
138	4	Nowadays, I've become more of a scrooge.
138	5	I haven't signed up for the past two years to give out candy in my apartment and probably won't this year.
138	6	But stats show that I'm a black sheep when it comes to Halloween.
138	7	The majority of Americans - 158 million of them in fact - will be celebrating Halloween this year, spending a total of $6.9 billion on candy, costumes and decorations, according to the National Retail Federation.
138	8	One thing I do look forward to every Halloween are the trends.
138	9	Costumes are expected to account for $1.2 billion dollars out of the $6.9 billion spent, according to the NRF.
138	10	This year, sexy inanimate objects are all the rage.
138	11	Women don't have to be sexy professionals anymore; they can also be sexy foods like pizza, hamburgers and carrots.
138	12	As for men, I expect we will be seeing a lot of zombies, thanks to The Walking Dead and I'll bet the Daft Punk space men will make it into our Instagram feeds this year.
138	13	According to Google, the highest searched costumes are zombies, Batman, pirates and witches.
138	14	I guess there's nothing wrong with going traditional.
138	15	We dressed our dogs up last year and to my amazement we were not alone.
138	16	In fact, Americans will spend $330 million on pet costumes this year, according to the NRF.
138	17	That's a lot of ironic hotdog dogs.
138	18	When it comes to candy, we don't screw around.
138	19	Americans will spend $1.9 billion on it this year, according to The Nielsen Company.
138	20	That's around 600 million pounds worth of Hershey bars, lollipops, Milk Duds, Twizzlers and Clark Bars.
138	21	That's great news for the 41 million trick-or-treaters set to take over our neighborhoods, according to the U.S. Commerce Department.
138	22	In fact, we will buy and, who are we kidding, consume 90 million pounds of chocolate during Halloween.
138	23	The one thing we don't want to consume, candy corn; and yet nearly 35 million pounds of it are sold around Halloween, according to the National Confectioners Association.
138	24	That's about 9 billion individual kernels of corn.
138	25	It's a mystery I have yet to solve.
138	26	Nothing is more quintessentially Halloween than haunted houses.
138	27	They have the best names, like "Terror Behind the Walls" (which, by the way is in an actual prison), "Howl-O-Scream" and "The House of Shock."
138	28	In fact, there are 1,200 officially sanctioned haunted houses in the United States generating about $500 million in revenue, according to America Haunts, and that includes those awesome photos of you mid-peeing your pants that your friend puts on Facebook and you can't take down and then that guy you like sees the photo and leaves a comment like "nice face."
138	29	Finally, let's talk pumpkins.
138	30	Charlie Brown introduced us to The Great Pumpkin when we were kids, and carving a jack-o-lantern is like decorating a Christmas tree - it's something we've done since we were little.
138	31	Lucky for us, the "baby in a pumpkin trend" started only last year thanks to Pinterest, so most of us grew up carving these gourds not sitting in them.
138	32	This year, Americans will spend around $106 million on pumpkins, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.
138	33	The jack-o-lantern slowly withering on your front porch probably came from Illinois, which grew 542 million pounds of pumpkin this year.
138	34	If you're looking for extra credit, call Tim and Susan Mathisdon in Napa, Calif., and try to carve up their 2,032 pound pumpkin.


139	1	"Bavaria" defender David Alaba became the best athlete of Austria in 2013, reports the official website of the bundesliga.
139	2	In this contest he overtook representatives of winter sports, who traditionally become the best in the country.
139	3	Downhill skier Marcel Hirscher took second place, and the third was ski jumper Gregor Schlierenzauer.
139	4	Last season the 21-year-old Austrian of Filipino-Nigerian origin helped his team win in the Champions League, the championships and Cup of Germany, as well as in the UEFA Super Cup.


140	1	In Kineshma and environs two men have committed suicide
140	2	One of the hanged men had previously attempted suicide.
140	3	On October 30th around 1:00 in the village of Lugovoye, a man born in 1947 committed suicide by hanging himself at his home.
140	4	It is known that previously he had already attempted suicide.
140	5	The man's motivation for such an action is unclear.
140	6	On October 31st at 11:50, a 41-year-old male resident of Kineshma committed suicide by hanging himself at his home.
140	7	No evidence of homicide was found, according to the press service of the Kineshemskiy InterMunicipal Police Department.


141	1	Mick Jagger says he never hit on Katy Perry when she was 18.
141	2	During an interview with an Australian radio show this week, the pop star said she sang backing vocals for Jagger's 2004 song "Old Habits Die Hard."
141	3	Perry said she had dinner with the veteran rocker and that "he hit on me when I was 18."
141	4	She added, "That was a long time ago, and he's been very kind."
141	5	In a statement Thursday, a representative for Jagger, 70, says he "categorically denies that he has ever made a pass at Katy Perry."
141	6	The rep adds: "Perhaps she is confusing him with someone else."
141	7	Perry was one of the singers to make a guest appearance on the Rolling Stones' tour this year.
141	8	Her new album, "Prism," debuted at No. 1 this week.


142	1	US-Mexico drug tunnel with its own railway found
142	2	One of the most sophisticated drug smuggling tunnels between the USA and Mexico has been found, complete with its own lighting, ventilation and electric rail systems.
142	3	US authorities described the four foot by three foot tunnel as one of the most sophisticated secret passages they have ever discovered.
142	4	The tunnel, which zigzags the length of nearly six football pitches, links warehouses near Tijuana, Mexico and San Diego, USA.
142	5	The area is filled with nondescript warehouses, making it easier to conceal trucks being loaded with drugs.
142	6	The tunnel was shut down before any drugs made it through undetected, authorities said.
142	7	Authorities seized eight-and-a-half tons of marijuana and 327 pounds of cocaine in connection with the tunnel's discovery, according to court records.
142	8	Three men who authorities say worked as drivers were charged with possession of marijuana and cocaine with intent to distribute.
142	9	They face prison sentences between 10 years and life imprisonment if convicted.
142	10	In Nogales, Arizona, smugglers tap into vast underground drainage canals.
142	11	The tunnel is the eighth major passage discovered in San Diego since 2006.
142	12	Some of the largest tunnels have been discovered after central Mexico's marijuana harvest in October, which presents drug cartels with a challenge of how to quickly get their product to consumers.
142	13	In 2010, authorities found a roughly 700-yard passage equipped with rail tracks that extended from the kitchen of a Tijuana home to two San Diego warehouses.


143	1	Parents of Georgia teen who died in 'freak accident' believe son was murdered
143	2	The parents of a Georgia teenager, whose body was found inside a rolled-up wrestling mat in his high school gym, believe their son was murdered, the family's attorney said Thursday.
143	3	Kendrick Johnson, of Valdosta, Ga., was found Jan. 11 stuck in an upright mat propped behind the bleachers inside his high school gym.
143	4	Lowndes County sheriff's investigators concluded Johnson died in a freak accident, but the 17-year-old's family disputes that.
143	5	"They absolutely think their son was murdered," Benjamin Crump, an attorney representing Kenneth and Jacquelyn Johnson, told FoxNews.com.
143	6	They never believed he died the way the sheriff concluded.
143	7	"They believe that it defies logic, the laws of physics as well as common sense," Crump said.
143	8	They think this is a cover-up to protect the person or people responsible for their son's death.
143	9	"They sent their son to school with a book-bag and he was returned to them in a body bag," he said.
143	10	U.S. Attorney Michael Moore said Thursday he is conducting a formal investigation into Johnson's death, noting that several key questions remain unanswered.
143	11	What was the cause of death?
143	12	Was his death the result of a crime?
143	13	Moore said at a press conference Thursday afternoon.
143	14	I will follow the facts wherever they lead.
143	15	My objective is to discovery the truth.
143	16	"I am of the opinion that a sufficient basis exists" for a formal investigation, he said.
143	17	Moore told reporters that the initial autopsy indicated Johnson died as a result of "positional asphyxia."
143	18	A second autopsy, however, listed a different cause of death, according to Moore.
143	19	"There are several questions that must be answered or confirmed," he said.
143	20	Moore added that if he uncovers sufficient evidence to warrant a criminal or civil rights investigation into the death of Johnson he will ask the FBI to conduct it.
143	21	A representative from the Lowndes County Sheriff's Office was not immediately available for comment when contacted Thursday.
143	22	A southern Georgia judge on Wednesday ordered authorities to release all surveillance video that investigators reviewed.
143	23	The teenager's parents said they hope the video footage will contain clues to how he died.


144	1	Pakistani authorities have begun negotiations with local Taliban
144	2	Pakistani authorities have begun negotiations with the Taliban movement.
144	3	This was reported by the embassy of that country in Great Britain, where the prime minister of Pakistan Navaz Sharif is visiting.
144	4	The head of the government of Pakistan made the announcement about negotiations with Islamic extremists during a meeting with British deputy prime minister Nick Clegg, with whom he discussed issues of the relations of Pakistan and India, the world energy market and economic reforms in Pakistan.
144	5	"The prime minister reported that dialog with the Taliban movement has begun, says the announcement of the embassy of Pakistan in London.
144	6	- He said that he hopes and prays that the dialog starts to work in accordance with the constitution of Pakistan," diplomats added.
144	7	Pakistani Taliban (Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan) are allies of the Afghan movement of the same name, however they operate independently from it in the northwestern regions of the country bordering Afghanistan.
144	8	Pakistani Taliban are striving to create an Islamic state.
144	9	Previously the government of Islamabad had made attempts to begin negotiations with local Taliban, however the movement rejected the dialog.
144	10	It declared that it would agree to negotiations only under the condition that the authorities withdraw troops deployed in regions where Taliban operate back to their permanent bases, as well as free detained islamists from prisons.
144	11	Navaz Sharif arrived in London for the World Islamic Economic Forum.
144	12	On Tuesday, October 29, the prime minister of Great Britain David Cameron, head of the Pakistani government and Afghan president Hamid Karzai in London held a trilateral meeting where they discussed the prospects of a peace process in Afghanistan.


145	1	The goalkeeper of "Neftekhimik" Matt Dalton declined to comment on the departure of Vladimir Krikunov from the job as coach of Nizhnekamtsi.
145	2	The goalkeeper believes that the acting head trainer Dmitry Balmin holds a lot of authority with the players and will handle his responsibilities.
145	3	Let us recall that today Neftekhimik dismissed Krikunov.
145	4	To be honest, I would not like to comment on the firing of Vladimir Krikunov, RIA Novosti cites Dalton.
145	5	I can only say that Dmitry Balmin will handle the responsibilities placed upon him - I have no doubt about that.
145	6	He holds a lot of authority on the team, a big future certainly awaits this young specialist.


146	1	Pawnbrokers shine in Singapore as middle class feel the pinch
146	2	At a pawnshop in Bendemeer shopping centre in Singapore, Janani Amirthalinga is swapping a gold bangle, ring and pair of earrings to pay her daughters" school fees.
146	3	"My husband and I have just bought a house so all my money's stuck there," Mrs Amirthalinga says.
146	4	Even though she earns S$3,000 ($2,400) a month as an administrator and her husband works as well, the monthly family income is insufficient, she says.
146	5	Indeed, such is demand across parts of southeast Asia - where household debt is rising - that ValueMax, where she is carrying out her transaction, this week became the third pawnshop to list on the Singapore stock exchange.
146	6	Pawning jewellery is not merely a fast way to land cash - S$1,300 in Ms Amirthalinga's case - but almost as cheap as unsecured bank loans.
146	7	Typically pawnbrokers in Singapore charge an effective annual percentage rate of 17 per cent, just above the 15.4 per cent offered at United Overseas Bank, a local lender with a branch in the same shopping centre.
146	8	However, pawnbrokers have the advantage of not requiring credit checks or proof of salary, and can arrange loans faster than banks.
146	9	Hence millions of people across the region are turning to pawnshops as families feel the squeeze from rising living costs and ballooning household and consumer debt.
146	10	After five years of robust growth since the global financial crisis, and cheap credit fuelled by loose monetary policy in advanced economies, lower- and middle-income families are turning to pawn shops to make up the difference as their economies slow.
146	11	This week Standard & Poor's, the rating agency, cited increasing household leverage, mainly from rising mortgages, as a risk factor for Asian banks" creditworthiness.
146	12	It said that Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore had the highest household debt to gross domestic product ratios in Asia.
146	13	Malaysia topped the list at 80 per cent of GDP, up from 60 per cent in 2008.
146	14	Economists are also worried about high levels of consumer debt in Thailand, which this week narrowly emerged from technical recession.
146	15	On Thursday, data showed continued export weakness, and a softening in consumer demand.
146	16	"Bottom line is that with costs rising, people in the middle to lower end [of the income scale] will be looking to supplement their income wherever they can," says Song Seng Wun, economist at CIMB, a Malaysian bank.
146	17	Historically high prices for gold in the past two years have added to the rush to pawn personal belongings, as people take the opportunity to cash in the value of their family jewellery.
146	18	In Singapore, about 70 per cent of items pawned at the city-state's 200 pawn outlets are gold.
146	19	People are saying "the gold price looks good, let's pawn grandma's gold chain and get it back next month.
146	20	In Thailand the largest pawnshop operator, EasyMoney, has seen an up to 20 per cent rise in the number of customers using its outlets in recent months.
146	21	Such is the growth in the pawn business that ValueMax, operator of the outlet at Bendemeer and of 15 others like it in Singapore, plans to expand not only in neighbouring Malaysia - where it has four shops - but outside Asia too, says Yeah Lee Ching, ValueMax's executive director.
146	22	The company will fund that by using 60 per cent of S$66m it raised this week in a listing on the Singapore stock exchange.
146	23	While some discount lenders have come under fire for high interest rates, Ms Yeah says that not only does pawning offer cheaper rates than other lenders, it also does not add directly to debt.
146	24	"Customers are mortgaging items that they already own, and monetising personal assets does not increase household debt," she says.
146	25	There's an increased social acceptance of pawnbroking as a means to secure short term, secured financing.
146	26	Nor are the types of people who use pawnbrokers only the financially stretched.
146	27	Wealthy people in Singapore also use ValueMax outlets, pawning gold bars or Rolex watches, which can command up to 60 per cent of their purchase price in cash.
146	28	We see customers from all walks of life.
146	29	"They include wealthy individuals who need to borrow short term for business ventures or investments, or small businesses with a need to tide over their cash flow needs," says Ms Yeah.
146	30	Sometimes they just need the money very quickly.


147	1	Bashkiria can put grain up for tender no earlier than the beginning of 2014
147	2	The Republic's Minister of Agriculture Nikolai Kovalenko believes that during government purchasing interventions Bashkiria can put grain up for tender no earlier than the beginning of 2014.
147	3	As of today, market prices are such that they do not stimulate sales to the intervention fund.
147	4	So far the market price is higher, and there is demand.
147	5	"It is possible that grain will be put up for tender after the New Year," he announced at yesterday's press conference.
147	6	The Minister recalled that this year sowing of agricultural crops for the 2013 harvest made up 3.1 million hectares, including acreage of grain crops of 1.7 million hectares, which is 3.3% higher than last year.
147	7	For the harvest of 2014, 550 thousand hectares have been sown (105 thousand hectares more than in 2012).
147	8	Acreage for winter wheat and triticale has been increased, rye remained at the previous level.


148	1	A football fan who broke a window in a station waiting lounge was detained in the Voronezh region
148	2	At nine o'clock in the evening on October 29 at the Gryazi-Voronezhskie station, members of the transportation police removed from a passenger train two football fans - natives of the Moscow region.
148	3	After departing for a game of their favorite team, on the way the guys caused a drunken row on the train.
148	4	The young people were delivered to the duty room of the line department of police at the Gryazi station to file an administrative offense report.
148	5	There the fans regretted their antisocial behavior.
148	6	Policemen filed administrative material on them and let them go.
148	7	The young people purchased tickets for the next train and began to wait for its arrival at the station.
148	8	At half past twelve in the night, the fans left the building of the railway station, however one of them, a 22-year-old young man, suddenly returned and used his leg to break a window of the entrance door in the station's waiting lounge.
148	9	An officer of the transportation police and a security guard from the private security company of "Russian Railways" rushed to the sound of breaking glass.
148	10	They managed to detain the perpetrator attempting to flee the scene.
148	11	An investigation is being conducted by officers of the Southeastern Line Authority of the Russian MVD.
148	12	The issue regarding initiation of criminal proceedings is being decided, reported senior advisor for information and public relations of the Southeastern Line Authority of the Russian MVD for transportation Sergei Olkhovik.


149	1	Russian security agencies know nothing about the group "Brotherly Circle" - New Izvestia
149	2	INTERFAX.RU writes about it citing an information source in RF law enforcement agencies.
149	3	"After reports of Leps being entered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury into blacklists on suspicion of involvement with the Eurasian crime syndicate 'Brotherly Circle' emerged in the media, we looked through all databases, but we did not detect such a group," said the agency source.
149	4	According to him, the distribution of such information helps maintain the myth about the so-called Russian mafia, which supposedly operates abroad.
149	5	As "NI" previously had written, yesterday the U.S. Department of the Treasury published on its website a list of supposed members of the criminal group "Brotherly Circle".
149	6	Among them the Russian singer Grigory Leps was also named.
149	7	He appears in the list as "Grisha", they put out the day before.
149	8	They coincide with the data of the popular Russian performer.
149	9	The exact name - Grigory Lepsevridze, stage name, place and data of birth are specified.
149	10	Besides Leps, another five persons are mentioned there.
149	11	Two Russians, a citizen of Israel, a citizen of Uzbekistan and one more native of the former USSR, whose citizenship is not specified.
149	12	In the U.S. they are confident that Grigory Leps, who resides on the island of Phuket, transported money for gangsters on their orders.
149	13	To this message was attached a photograph of the singer and was specified all of his data, which correspond to the facts.
149	14	Moreover, Leps actually recently bought a home on Phuket.
149	15	In the agency they noted that they intend to impose sanctions in relation to Leps.
149	16	A person's entry into blacklists of the American Department of the Treasury entails blocking his assets in the U.S. and banning business contacts with him by persons living in the United States.
149	17	The assistant of Leps Maya Serikova stated that no notifications have come to the singer: "It is difficult to answer the question, is Grigory the one about whom everyone is talking now in connection with the scandal in the U.S."
149	18	All that Leps knows is media information.
149	19	He personally received no official notifications, although I don't know if they happen in such cases.
149	20	"And, of course, all this, on one hand, is ridiculous, but on the other - surprising and unexpected," she stated to RIA Novosti.
149	21	According to her, Grigory Leps does not live on Phuket, but, as the U.S. Department of the Treasury asserts, he indeed has a home on the Thai island.
149	22	She stated that now Leps is on a long tour across the Far East and Siberia, and that the news reached him during a flight to the city of Blagoveschensk.


150	1	A black box in your car?
150	2	As America's road planners struggle to find the cash to mend a crumbling highway system, many are beginning to see a solution in a little black box that fits neatly by the dashboard of your car.
150	3	The devices, which track every mile a motorist drives and transmit that information to bureaucrats, are at the center of a controversial attempt in Washington and state planning offices to overhaul the outdated system for funding America's major roads.
150	4	The usually dull arena of highway planning has suddenly spawned intense debate and colorful alliances.
150	5	Libertarians have joined environmental groups in lobbying to allow government to use the little boxes to keep track of the miles you drive, and possibly where you drive them - then use the information to draw up a tax bill.
150	6	The tea party is aghast.
150	7	The American Civil Liberties Union is deeply concerned, too, raising a variety of privacy issues.
150	8	And while Congress can't agree on whether to proceed, several states are not waiting.
150	9	They are exploring how, over the next decade, they can move to a system in which drivers pay per mile of road they roll over.
150	10	Thousands of motorists have already taken the black boxes, some of which have GPS monitoring, for a test drive.
150	11	This really is a must for our nation.
150	12	"It is not a matter of something we might choose to do," said Hasan Ikhrata, executive director of the Southern California Assn. of Governments, which is planning for the state to start tracking miles driven by every California motorist by 2025.
150	13	There is going to be a change in how we pay these taxes.
150	14	The technology is there to do it.
150	15	The push comes as the country's Highway Trust Fund, financed with taxes Americans pay at the gas pump, is broke.
150	16	Americans don't buy as much gas as they used to.
150	17	Cars get many more miles to the gallon.
150	18	The federal tax itself, 18.4 cents per gallon, hasn't gone up in 20 years.
150	19	Politicians are loath to raise the tax even one penny when gas prices are high.
150	20	"The gas tax is just not sustainable," said Lee Munnich, a transportation policy expert at the University of Minnesota.
150	21	His state recently put tracking devices on 500 cars to test out a pay-by-mile system.
150	22	"This works out as the most logical alternative over the long term," he said.
150	23	Wonks call it a mileage-based user fee.
150	24	It is no surprise that the idea appeals to urban liberals, as the taxes could be rigged to change driving patterns in ways that could help reduce congestion and greenhouse gases, for example.
150	25	California planners are looking to the system as they devise strategies to meet the goals laid out in the state's ambitious global warming laws.
150	26	But Rep. Bill Shuster (R-Pa.), chairman of the House Transportation Committee, has said he, too, sees it as the most viable long-term alternative.
150	27	The free marketeers at the Reason Foundation are also fond of having drivers pay per mile.
150	28	"This is not just a tax going into a black hole," said Adrian Moore, vice president of policy at Reason.
150	29	People are paying more directly into what they are getting.
150	30	The movement is also bolstered by two former U.S. Transportation secretaries, who in a 2011 report urged Congress to move in the pay-per-mile direction.
150	31	The U.S. Senate approved a $90-million pilot project last year that would have involved about 10,000 cars.
150	32	But the House leadership killed the proposal, acting on concerns of rural lawmakers representing constituents whose daily lives often involve logging lots of miles to get to work or into town.
150	33	Several states and cities are nonetheless moving ahead on their own.
150	34	The most eager is Oregon, which is enlisting 5,000 drivers in the country's biggest experiment.
150	35	Those drivers will soon pay the mileage fees instead of gas taxes to the state.
150	36	Nevada has already completed a pilot.
150	37	New York City is looking into one.
150	38	Illinois is trying it on a limited basis with trucks.
150	39	And the I-95 Coalition, which includes 17 state transportation departments along the Eastern Seaboard (including Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Florida), is studying how they could go about implementing the change.
150	40	The concept is not a universal hit.
150	41	In Nevada, where about 50 volunteers' cars were equipped with the devices not long ago, drivers were uneasy about the government being able to monitor their every move.
150	42	"Concerns about Big Brother and those sorts of things were a major problem," said Alauddin Khan, who directs strategic and performance management at the Nevada Department of Transportation.
150	43	It was not something people wanted.
150	44	As the trial got underway, the ACLU of Nevada warned on its website: "It would be fairly easy to turn these devices into full-fledged tracking devices."
150	45	There is no need to build an enormous, unwieldy technological infrastructure that will inevitably be expanded to keep records of individuals' everyday comings and goings.
150	46	Nevada is among several states now scrambling to find affordable technology that would allow the state to keep track of how many miles a car is being driven, but not exactly where and at what time.
150	47	If you can do that, Khan said, the public gets more comfortable.
150	48	The hunt for that technology has led some state agencies to a small California startup called True Mileage.
150	49	The firm was not originally in the business of helping states tax drivers.
150	50	It was seeking to break into an emerging market in auto insurance, in which drivers would pay based on their mileage.
150	51	But the devices it is testing appeal to highway planners because they don't use GPS and deliver a limited amount of information, uploaded periodically by modem.
150	52	"People will be more willing to do this if you do not track their speed and you do not track their location," said Ryan Morrison, chief executive of True Mileage.
150	53	There have been some big mistakes in some of these state pilot programs.
150	54	There are a lot less expensive and less intrusive ways to do this.
150	55	In Oregon, planners are experimenting with giving drivers different choices.
150	56	They can choose a device with or without GPS.
150	57	Or they can choose not to have a device at all, opting instead to pay a flat fee based on the average number of miles driven by all state residents.
150	58	Other places are hoping to sell the concept to a wary public by having the devices do more, not less.
150	59	In New York City, transportation officials are seeking to develop a taxing device that would also be equipped to pay parking meter fees, provide "pay-as-you-drive" insurance, and create a pool of real-time speed data from other drivers that motorists could use to avoid traffic.
150	60	"Motorists would be attracted to participate because of the value of the benefits it offers to them," says a city planning document.
150	61	Some transportation planners, though, wonder if all the talk about paying by the mile is just a giant distraction.
150	62	At the Metropolitan Transportation Commission in the San Francisco Bay Area, officials say Congress could very simply deal with the bankrupt Highway Trust Fund by raising gas taxes.
150	63	An extra one-time or annual levy could be imposed on drivers of hybrids and others whose vehicles don't use much gas, so they pay their fair share.
150	64	"There is no need for radical surgery when all you need to do is take an aspirin," said Randy Rentschler, the commission's director of legislation and public affairs.
150	65	If we do this, hundreds of millions of drivers will be concerned about their privacy and a host of other things.


151	1	Pope Francis to name first cardinals in February
151	2	Pope Francis will create new cardinals of the Catholic Church for his first time on February 22, the Vatican announced Thursday.
151	3	Cardinals are the highest-ranking clergy in the Catholic Church below the pope, and they're the ones who elect popes, so Francis will be appointing his first group of men who will ultimately help choose his successor.
151	4	There are now 201 cardinals.
151	5	However, once a cardinal reaches 80 he is no longer permitted to participate in the election of a pope -- this falls to a group of 120 "cardinal electors."
151	6	In a statement announcing the news, Father Federico Lombardi, a Vatican spokesman, said a meeting of all the existing cardinals would be held before the ceremony to elevate the new cardinals, known as a consistory.
151	7	"Pope Francis has decided to communicate his decision to convoke February's consistory in advance in order to facilitate the planning of other meetings involving the participation of cardinals from different parts of the world," Lombardi said.
151	8	Jack Valero of Catholic Voices said that by February, the number of cardinal electors was likely to have dropped.
151	9	He said usually a pope would name as many cardinals as was needed to raise the number of cardinal electors back to 120 and as many cardinals aged over 80 as he wanted.
151	10	Next year's consistory would be significant because it would be the first since Francis was elected in March this year, Valero said.
151	11	At the moment there is a sort of bias towards Europe and especially towards Italy.
151	12	"It will be interesting to see whether the new Pope will nominate cardinals from the rest of the world to restore the balance," he said.
151	13	Forty percent of Roman Catholics are in South America, but they have a tiny number of cardinals.
151	14	The cardinals will also be the first to be chosen since Francis formed the Council of Cardinals, a group of eight cardinals from around the world tasked with looking into ways to reform the church.
151	15	In the past the Pope decided everything on his own.
151	16	"Now Francis has selected these eight cardinals to help him," Valero said.
151	17	He said it was "quite possible" that Francis would ask the cardinals for advice.
151	18	But we've not been in that situation before -- it's all completely new.
151	19	Valero said popes typically elevated bishops from large places to the position of cardinal but that Francis was "full of surprises -- so we don't know who he'll name."


152	1	The VII Interregional "Medicine and Health" exhibition opened in Ivanovo.
152	2	The interregional exhibition "Medicine and Health - 2013" opened at the "Olympia" sport and recreation complex.
152	3	The First Deputy Chairperson of the Government of the Ivanovo Region, Olga Khasbulatova took part in the festive opening of the event.
152	4	The work of regional budgetary healthcare facilities for Ivanovo region, as well as of the commercial health treatment facilities of the regions of Central Russia, is presented at the exhibition.
152	5	As part of the exhibition, seminars, roundtable discussions, and presentations will be conducted.
152	6	During the work of the exhibition, the operation of a mobile complex (full diagnostics), mobile fluorograph, blood transfusion station is arranged.
152	7	All who wish to will be able to receive free diagnostic procedures, consultations of specialists, participate in a master class on therapeutic exercise, learn about the range of services offered in the health treatment facilities of Ivanovo region.
152	8	In addition, Donor Day will take place during the exhibition.
152	9	The overall concept of the "Medicine and Health - 2013" exhibition is a preventative focus in medicine, advocacy for a healthy way of life.
152	10	Medical goods and services, equipment, pharmaceutical and medical supplies that increase the quality of life are presented at the exhibition.
152	11	The main focuses of the exhibition are: development of cooperation with manufacturers and suppliers of medical equipment of Ivanovo region and regions of Russia; demonstration of medical goods and services, equipment, pharmaceutical and medical supplies that increase the quality of life; establishment of business contacts between medical facilities of Ivanovo region.


153	1	Tax on foreign property owners to burst London's bubble
153	2	The Treasury have provisionally costed out the CGT measure but are awaiting a final decision from Mr Osborne, who, in the 2012 Budget, introduced a 7% rate of stamp duty for homes costing more than £2m and annual charges for buyers who choose to hold homes in a company rather than as individuals.
153	3	Already the stamp duty take for residential property in the boroughs of Westminster and Kensington & Chelsea, which stood at £708 million in the 2012/13 tax year, exceeds the combined total for Northern Ireland, Wales, Scotland, the North East, North West and Yorkshire and the Humber put together.
153	4	Mr Cook said: "Following increases in stamp duty of high value homes and the introduction of associated anti-avoidance legislation, it is very difficult to argue that high value property is under-taxed irrespective of the effect of the out-dated council tax system."
153	5	"But this move could make some foreign investors reticent to buy property in London or current owners reluctant to sell," he added.
153	6	Prime property - the top 5% to 10% of the housing market by price - in the affluent south-west London belt, which stretches from Fulham to Wimbledon, has increased by a record 11.8% over the past year.
153	7	Prices in central London continued to show steady year-on-year growth of 5.6% but were overshadowed by a burgeoning "domestic market" with the city's south west, north (7.4%) and east (6.5%) all experiencing an uptick, according to research from Savills.


154	1	The scheduled meeting of the Association of Machine Builders of the Tyumen Region took place at the Yalutorovsk automobile factory.
154	2	As part of the event, there was a presentation of a new line of production of electric-welded steel tubes.
154	3	As the commercial director of the enterprise Denis Gribanov related, in 2011 with the emergence of a new owner, marketing research was conducted to study the market for selling steel structures in the Tyumen region.
154	4	It was found that the region consumes more than 50 thousand tons of electric-welded tubes per month.
154	5	Then a decision was made to change the profile of the factory and install within it equipment for their production.
154	6	Already this year more than 7 thousand tons of manufactured products have been shipped.
154	7	Investments in the factory made up more than 120 million rubles, - recounted Denis Gribanov.
154	8	In October a new mill was launched, which helps augment the product mix.
154	9	The factory produces small tube sections that are used for greenhouse facilities, small-scale construction and the furniture industry, as well as large ones for the construction industry.
154	10	We plan to reach a production level of 50 thousand tons of products per year, which will make up around 10 percent of its consumption in the Tyumen region.
154	11	Despite the transition to a different type of activity, the number of employees at the plant has not been reduced - now it amounts to 157 people, when new equipment is purchased there are plans to increase personnel by more than 50 employees.
154	12	Retraining of staff is underway at the plant, and necessary specialists are being selected from those already available.
154	13	Next year it is planned to commission a new unit for slitting steel with a thickness of up to five millimeters, which will help reduce the cost of products, as well as another mill with a tube production speed of up to 47 meters per minute.
154	14	By the end of 2014 at the plant they intend to master the production of tubes that are used in housing and utilities infrastructure.
154	15	Plant management is aiming to cover up to 70 percent of Tyumen region's demand for these products.
154	16	Deputy director of the department of investment policy Leonid Ostroumov, addressing production managers, recommended putting greater emphasis on modernizing machine-building plants.
154	17	Also directed at this are forms of government support of industry, which include reimbursement of interest rates on loans to purchase new equipment and expenses on its leasing.
154	18	This year 150 million rubles have been allocated for these objectives, two thirds of this amount have already been spent.
154	19	The last committee that will examine subsidy agreements are accepting documents from plants until November 15.
154	20	In addition, expenses on the participation of local producers in international fairs are reimbursed by the budget.
154	21	For next year, the budget provides funds in the amount of 150 million rubles that may be used to compensate leasing payments and loans to acquire new equipment.
154	22	5 million will be allocated for participation in fairs, 3 million for energy saving programs.
154	23	Funds for reimbursing ordered and paid equipment that is produced in the south of Tyumen region for the oil and gas complex will be reduced to 72 million rubles.
154	24	According to Leonid Ostroumov, ultimately this form of support will end since the motive of its introduction was compensation of the extraction tax that oil companies paid into the regional budget.
154	25	Presently they are not doing this and subsidies are becoming direct expenditure obligations of the region.
154	26	Accordingly, the regional government considers direct support of industrial plants to be priority, and not financing of the oil industry through them.
154	27	Budget assistance will be linked to investment projects that will be implemented in production.
154	28	Many plant managers expressed concern in connection with the developing situation in relations with oil companies.
154	29	A subsidy for equipment purchased by them is a competitive advantage of industry in the south of Tyumen region, and if it is canceled it will be difficult to compete in price with the temperate zone of Russia where the work force is cheaper.
154	30	In addition, the issue is unclear regarding the succession of the new owner of TNK-BP - the company "Rosneft", which so far is not placing its orders at Tyumen plants.
154	31	The agreement on implementing the Uvatskiy project expires in 2013, and requests for its extension have not been received.
154	32	At present, plants in the south of the region that specialize in equipment for the oil and gas sector cannot form a portfolio of orders for next year.
154	33	The open-ended question remains, will taxes from oil produced in the Uvatskiy region proceed to the budget of the region or will they be paid based on the place of registration of the new owner of the fields?


155	1	The 2nd conference of peoples of the South Urals took place in Chelyabinsk.
155	2	The forum was timed to coincide with National Unity Day, the 400th annivesary of the restoration of Russian statehood, and the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the Russian Constitution.
155	3	The work of the conference involved delegations from all cities and districts of the region, representatives of national and cultural associations, religious confessions, bodies of legislative and executive power - altogether around 350 people.
155	4	The course of the forum was aimed at strengthening interethnic concord.
155	5	Here we can set an example not only to other regions, but also to other countries.
155	6	We have no discrepancies and contentions.
155	7	We live in complete mutual understanding," asserts Theophan, metropolitan of Chelyabinsk and Zlatoust.
155	8	Over the course of the meeting a number of issues were examined, including fostering patriotism, cultural cooperation.
155	9	Based on the results of the convention, they adopted a resolution.
155	10	The unofficial part of the forum was continued in the opera and ballet theater.
155	11	Here they opened the exhibition of national and cultural associations of the Chelyabinsk region.


156	1	Syria has destroyed its chemical weapons making ability, watchdog group says
156	2	Syria has destroyed critical equipment for producing chemical weapons and poison gas munitions, the global chemical weapons watchdog said Thursday as fierce clashes raged in the country's north, close to one of the sites where toxic agents are believed to be stored.
156	3	Also Thursday, a Syrian activist group said more than 120,000 people have been killed since the start of the country's civil war nearly three years ago.
156	4	The announcement by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons came one day ahead of the Nov.
156	5	1 deadline set by The Hague-based organization for Damascus to destroy or "render inoperable" all chemical weapon production facilities and machinery for mixing chemicals into poison gas and filling munitions.
156	6	The completion of what is essentially the initial stage of destruction is a significant milestone in an ambitious timeline that aims to destroy all of Damascus' chemical weapons by mid-2014.
156	7	Destruction of the equipment means that Syria can no longer produce new chemical weapons.
156	8	However, Damascus still has to start destroying existing weapons and stockpiles.
156	9	The country is believed to have around 1,000 metric tons of chemicals and weapons including mustard gas and the nerve agent sarin.
156	10	The announcement came as fighting raged Thursday in the town of Safira, which experts say is home to a chemical weapons production facility as well as storage sites, reported the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.
156	11	The activist group, which has been tracking the death toll through a network of activists in Syria, said Thursday that 120,296 people have died.
156	12	Of those, it said 61,067 are civilians, including 6,365 children.
156	13	On the government side, it said 29,954 are members of President Bashar Assad's armed forces, 18,678 are pro-government fighters and 187 are Lebanese Hezbollah militants.
156	14	Also among the dead it said were 2,202 army defectors and some 5,375 opposition fighters, many of them foreigners.
156	15	On July 25, the U.N. estimated 100,000 have died in the conflict since March 2011.
156	16	It has not updated that figure since.
156	17	The conflict has forced some 2 million people to flee the country.
156	18	Assad's troops have been battling rebels, many of them linked to al-Qaida groups, in Safira for weeks.
156	19	The Observatory said there were casualties on both sides Thursday but had no specifics.
156	20	The fighting underscored the dangers the chemical weapons' inspectors face as they race against tight deadlines in their mission to rid Syria of the toxic arsenal in the midst of an ongoing civil war.
156	21	A statement from the OPCW, which works closely with the United Nations, said its team was "now satisfied that it has verified - and seen destroyed - all of Syria's declared critical production and mixing/filling equipment."
156	22	It added that, "no further inspection activities are currently planned."
156	23	Earlier this week, the inspectors said they had completed their first round of verification work, visiting 21 of 23 sites declared by Damascus.
156	24	They were unable to visit two sites because of security concerns, the inspectors said.
156	25	On Thursday, OPCW said the two locations were, according to Syria, "abandoned and ... the chemical weapons program items they contained were moved to other declared sites, which were inspected."
156	26	It was not immediately clear if the facility in Safira was one of the two sites that OPCW inspectors were not able to visit.
156	27	Syria has submitted a plan for the total destruction of its chemical weapons that has to be approved next month by the OPCW's executive committee.
156	28	"I salute the fortitude and courage you've all demonstrated in fulfilling the most challenging mission ever undertaken by this organization," the watchdog's director-general, Ahmet Uzumcu, said in comments released by the OPCW.
156	29	Now in its third year, the civil war pits the primarily Sunni Muslim rebels against Assad's government and its security forces, which are stacked with members of his Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.
156	30	In other developments, the Observatory's chief Rami Abdurrahman said there had been a strong explosion Wednesday inside an air defense facility in Syria's coastal province of Latakia.
156	31	The cause of the blast was not known, he said.


157	1	Report: Obama campaign considered dumping Biden for Hillary Clinton
157	2	President Barack Obama's closest advisers secretly considered replacing Vice President Joe Biden with Hillary Clinton on the 2012 ticket, according to the New York Times.
157	3	The revelation is the most notable bombshell from Mark Halperin and John Heilemann's heavily anticipated 2012 campaign tome, "Double Down: Game Change 2012."
157	4	The Times obtained a copy of the forthcoming book and reported Thursday evening that the President's top aides conducted "extensive group-sessions and polling in late 2011" to gauge whether the dumping Biden could help bolster Obama's waning re-election hopes.
157	5	According to the Times' national political correspondent Jonathan Martin, the book provides a thorough account of the effort by senior officials inside the campaign and the White House, namely former White House Chief of Staff Bill Daley, to measure what effect swapping former Secretary of State Clinton for the Vice President would have in the polls.
157	6	The potential switch was a closely guarded secret within the Chicago campaign infrastructure and inside the Oval Office.
157	7	Only half a dozen of the President's closest advisers -- including Daley, former Obama campaign chief Jim Messina, and former White House senior advisers David Axelrod and David Plouffe -- knew the change was under consideration.
157	8	"Double Down" claims Daley spearheaded the effort to replace Biden, despite their "close personal rapport," before ultimately deciding against the move when their data showed adding Clinton to the ticket wouldn't "materially improve Obama's odds."
157	9	In an interview with Martin, Daley confirmed that the administration did in fact consider replacing Biden with Clinton.
157	10	"I was vocal about looking into a whole bunch of things, and this was one of them," Daley told the paper.
157	11	You have to remember, at that point the President was in awful shape, so we were like, "Holy Christ, what do we do?"
157	12	While Daley characterized the research as "due diligence," Martin told CNN's Anderson Cooper that the re-election campaign made a significant investment in finding out whether the move would pay dividends at the polls.
157	13	"Campaigns don't spend the kind of money on polling and focus groups unless they're seriously considering something," Martin said on AC360.
157	14	It's unclear, however, whether Obama knew his team was exploring the swap.
157	15	Martin told CNN that he asked Daley whether his then-boss knew about the potential shuffle.
157	16	While Daley said he doesn't think the President "was aware" of the potential change, the former chief of staff admitted that it's "possible" Obama knew.
157	17	Martin added that "Double Down" does not definitively answer whether the political probing reached Obama's desk.
157	18	Cooper asked Martin whether he seriously thought Obama did not know about the research into dumping Biden from the ticket.
157	19	"Possibly," Martin replied.


158	1	The head of the control and disciplinary committee of the RFU Artur Grigoryants reported that "Kuban" has been fined for 500 thousand rubles, relays "SE" correspondent Phillip PAPENKOV from the Football House.
158	2	Such sanctions in relation to the Krasnodar club were applied for the burning of the Dagestan flag by fans in the stands during a 14th round home match against "Anzhi".
158	3	At the meeting were representatives of both clubs, a person from the RFPL.
158	4	We examined all available materials.
158	5	"Kuban" was fined 500 thousand rubles for unlawful behavior of spectators.


159	1	Legislative bans have forced Russians to drink less beer
159	2	Russian brewers are in a bad mood.
159	3	According to their estimates, consumption of beer in the country in the coming year will remain at the previous level, and that is the best case scenario.
159	4	Although businessmen initially expected growth.
159	5	After all, the current year is developing unsuccessfully for them: sales dropped by 7 percent.
159	6	All of this was told by the head of one of the largest beer brewing companies in the country, chairman of the Council of the Russian Beer Brewing Union Isaac Sheps at the Adam Smith Institute's 3rd annual conference "Day-to-day Goods in Russia", which just completed in Moscow.
159	7	At it they discussed government regulation of the market.
159	8	From 2008 through 2012 the Russian beer market already contracted by 18 percent since in recent years in the country we are observing significant strengthening of regulation of the beer brewing industry in terms of production and turnover of beer - a beverage with small alcohol content, Sheps told listeners.
159	9	There's no other country in the world with such rigid restriction of the beer market, unpredictable introduction of more and more new irrational bans that are supposedly founded on a battle against alcohol abuse.
159	10	The beer brewer complained that many legislative bans designed to reduce the level of alcohol abuse do not exert any real influence, nonetheless more and more new initiatives are constantly emerging.
159	11	The ban on selling alcohol in kiosks that was introduced this year hit beer producers the hardest of all.
159	12	"We immediately lost 35 thousand consumers," said Isaac Sheps.
159	13	Beer brewers have two forecasts for the coming year.
159	14	Optimistic - the one Sheps talked about: sales of the frothy beverage will remain at the previous level.
159	15	Pessimistic - they will drop by another 2-3 percent.
159	16	In order to preserve their profits, businessmen are forced to move from varieties that are tailored to the mass consumer to the "premium" class: there will be less beer, but it will cost more.
159	17	Meanwhile, radical consequences from the drop in sales with a small amount of alcohol are so far not apparent.
159	18	"Based on my observations, the level of alcoholism disorders remains at approximately the same level," said doctor-narcologist Aleksei Sotnikov.
159	19	Granted, there is an increased percentage of patients who consumed surrogates of hard liquors, as well as those who "got hooked" on alcohol-containing tonics such as "Jaguar", while ten years ago specifically "beer-based" alcoholism was dominant.


160	1	What will be the result of construction of transport hubs in Moscow
160	2	Each year, the capital's authorities promise to develop more and more transport hubs (TH).
160	3	There are plans to commission 255 transport hubs before 2020.
160	4	Our correspondent found out what the project really entails.
160	5	A couple of months ago a construction fence arose near the Smolenskaya metro station on the Arbatsko-Pokrovskaya line.
160	6	A sign announced ongoing development of a transport hub.
160	7	All of this was very strange since no above-ground transport stops near "Smolenskaya" and, consequently, it is impossible to transfer to it.
160	8	In order to reach the nearest trolleybus stop on the Sadovoe ring road, it is necessary to cover around 130 meters, including an above-ground crossing over Karmanitskiy lane.
160	9	Now almost everything is finished at Smolenskaya.
160	10	The flower kiosk disappeared, the newspaper stand was dismantled, and the asphalt in front of the entrance was replaced with stone block.
160	11	That is the entire transport hub.
160	12	Transport hubs can be planar and extensive, they explain in the press office of the capital's department of transport.
160	13	So far there are no extensive transport hubs.
160	14	But planar ones involve the construction of parking areas, removal of shopping facilities that inhibit the movement of passengers, creation of small architectural forms and landscaping.
160	15	In fact, transport specialists do not engage in planar transport hubs, but site improvement professionals from the capital repairs department of the city of Moscow do.
160	16	A transport hub is not necessarily an elaborate construction, explains the director of the Institute of Economics for Transportation and Transportation Policy of the Higher School of Economics Mikhail Blinkin.
160	17	Sometimes a roof overhead and a panel notifying about transport arrival time are enough.
160	18	Well, for example, they recently opened an entirely full-fledged planar transport hub at the "Yasenevo" metro.
160	19	Granted, without awnings, but with intercepting parking areas and panels indicating when a bus will arrive.
160	20	But in pursuit of quantity, officials register as transport hubs everything at hand.
160	21	As early as 2011 the mayor's office planned to construct only 151 hubs, of which 59 with capital construction.
160	22	Now as many as 255 transport hubs are listed in plans up to 2020.
160	23	They promise to commission a hundred and fifty of them this year.
160	24	Even though there is a transport hub development program in the city, no qualitative criteria are designated, states Alexander Morozov, co-chairman of the public organization "City and Transport".
160	25	They report on the number of facilities, but the quality of the transfer on each of them frequently gets worse.
160	26	According to experts, there should be two criteria: firstly - reduction in transfer time, secondly - convenience.
160	27	Above all, the capability to change transport mode without going out into the rain.
160	28	In Moscow, however, with transport hub development sometimes it turns out exactly opposite.
160	29	A striking example is the "VDNKh" metro.
160	30	Previously, suburban buses from Yaroslavl highway entered the square in front of the main entrance to the All-Russia Exhibition Center.
160	31	Now their stops have been re-located to the opposite side of Yaroslavl highway to Cosmonaut street.
160	32	Further from the metro, significantly further from the monorail, though closer to residential buildings.
160	33	Even though residents downright did not want a bus terminal under their windows and complained on all possible levels.
160	34	Extensive transport hubs in Moscow somehow immediately did not succeed.
160	35	They began to build the first of them about five years ago at the "Planernaya" metro.
160	36	The project was designed to be exemplary.
160	37	And in fact it succeeded as an example of how a transport hub sold out to investors is turned into a banal shopping center.
160	38	No, here there are platforms for buses, an awning so as not to walk from the metro station in the rain, and three floors of bus stops.
160	39	Granted, they on principle did not provide space to Khimki trolleybuses No.202 and No.203 in the Moscow transport hub.
160	40	They were pushed away further from the metro as strangers.
160	41	On the other hand, more space was left for trading.
160	42	32 stores of only clothes, but generally there is almost everything - from pet goods to a car dealership.
160	43	Well, indeed, what if one of the bus passengers needs to buy a new car on the way?
160	44	Around here, when they build an extensive transport hub, for some reason a shopping center always results.
160	45	Recently, the situation reached its logical conclusion when they decided to put part of a parking area on the market.
160	46	Now, lively trade is occurring on the third floor of the "Planernaya" transport hub among the parking places marked out on the ground.
160	47	Vegetables, seasoning, Chinese jeans, non-Russian conversation and security guards maliciously looking at our photographer.
160	48	The transport hub has completely turned into a bazaar.
160	49	The thing is, previously there was a market at "Planernaya" metro, but they tore it down.
160	50	But in the prefect's office they took pity on vendors and let them onto the intercepting parking area of the transport hub.
160	51	Nevertheless, due to high prices it is always empty there.
160	52	The most humorous part is that the market was torn down in order to build in its place... the new planar transport hub.
160	53	That's the shuffle.
160	54	At the Kaluzhskaya metro, the approach distance from the metro vestibule to the bus made up 50 meters, recounts Alexander Morozov.
160	55	After construction of the shopping center, allegedly a transport hub, the distance increased to 170 meters.
160	56	In order to board the bus, it is necessary to walk through the entire shopping center.
160	57	After 22:00, when it is closed, it is necessary to walk around it under the open sky.
160	58	By the way, the constructions on Planernaya and Kaluzhskaya will soon seem like roses.
160	59	In mid September, the urban planning and land commission of the mayor's office confirmed the planning solutions for the first eight extensive transport hubs.
160	60	Four of them will be 25-storied, not counting the two-three underground levels.
160	61	The main monster will develop at the Tushino metro, it will have 418.7 thousand square meters of area.
160	62	Representatives of the directorate of railway terminals of Russian Railways who are responsible for construction of the transport hub at the metro have already told journalists: stores, hotels and apartments will be available in future multi-story buildings.
160	63	At the same time, officials assure that multi-level parking areas will occupy from a third to half of the area.
160	64	Let's take as an example "public" garages.
160	65	Let's say that a garage with 258 car spaces, which they recently built on International street, has an area of 8,105 square meters.
160	66	That means that parking for 2.6 thousand cars at "Petrovsko-Razumovskaya" will require approximately 80 thousand "squares".
160	67	This is less than a third of the giant that they intend to build there.
160	68	Allow one-two floors to go toward all kinds of platforms for buses.
160	69	There remains at least 150 thousand square meters of commercial real estate.
160	70	And that, just a minute, is almost two state department stores.
160	71	If the railway folks will build extensive transport hubs at stations and terminals, then the metro folks will absorb the remaining areas.
160	72	They also promised that there will be many "functional facilities", including hotels, offices, and even gyms.
160	73	By the way, recently in the property department of the city of Moscow they told journalists that they are developing a draft resolution according to which investors will be able to directly contact officials to acquire a site for a transport hub.
160	74	Without any tenders.
160	75	Because, they say, transportation issues for the city are priority.
160	76	An ideal transport hub is, for example, the Harvard station in Boston and Spadina station in Toronto, assures Alexander Morozov.
160	77	There, trolleybuses and trams are sent underground to the metro level and the approach distance from the metro car to the tram equals only 50 meters without an exit to the street.
160	78	There is no unnecessary vending around.
160	79	But Moscow officials are given to extremes.
160	80	Either we will not build anything, or we will go as far as build 25 floors with offices and apartments.


161	1	Oil extends drop toward $96 a barrel
161	2	The price of oil continued to fall on Friday as concerns over high supplies offset a report showing China's power-hungry manufacturing sector is strengthening.
161	3	Benchmark U.S. crude for December delivery was down 14 cents at $96.24 a barrel by late morning in Europe in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
161	4	The contract fell 39 cents on Thursday, leaving it down 5.8 percent for the month of October.
161	5	Ample supplies of crude have weighed on the price in recent weeks.
161	6	The Energy Department said Wednesday that U.S. supplies increased 4.1 million barrels last week.
161	7	Over five weeks, supplies have risen by more than 25 million barrels.
161	8	But a suggestion of stronger demand came Friday from two reports on Chinese manufacturing that showed an uptick in activity.
161	9	That suggests China's economic recovery could continue to strengthen after growth rebounded to 7.8 percent in the third quarter from a two-decade low in the previous quarter.
161	10	Brent crude, a benchmark for international crude also used by U.S. refineries, fell 26 cents to $108.58 a barrel on the ICE exchange in London.


162	1	In Ekaterinburg a criminal murdered two sisters and burned their bodies
162	2	In Ekaterinburg police are searching for a criminal who brutally murdered two sisters.
162	3	Their bodies were burned after the murder.
162	4	As reported to "New Region" in the press office of the headquarters of the RF Ministry of Internal Affairs for the Sverdlov region, on the previous day in the Kirov district of the Ural capital, after extinguishing a fire in a three-room apartment located in a residential building on Uralskaya street, the bodies of two women displaying signs of a violent death were discovered.
162	5	Soon the identities of the deceased were established.
162	6	It emerged that they were sisters, one of them a resident of Ekaterinburg, 44 years of age, the second - a 33-year-old resident of the Orenburg region.
162	7	They had rented the burnt-out apartment several days ago.
162	8	The chief of police of the region Mikhail Borodin took personal control of the investigation.
162	9	Law enforcement agencies are working various versions of the murder, are checking alibis of previously convicted citizens and persons disposed to such actions.
162	10	In addition, they are establishing for what purpose the women rented the apartment, and where they resided previously, what did they do, with whom they maintained relations.


163	1	Pamela Anderson chops off those iconic blonde locks, debuts dramatic new pixie cut.
163	2	Pam's blonde locks were made famous by her role in sexy TV show Baywatch.
163	3	Pamela Anderson is the latest celebrity to shock fans with a dramatic new hairdo.
163	4	The ex-Baywatch babe has ditched her long blonde locks in favour of a platinum pixie crop.
163	5	The 46-year-old actress revealed her latest look while out and about in LA on Wednesday and shared a snap on her Twitter page.
163	6	It's the first time in 20 years that the blonde beauty has had short hair, and we're loving the demure change.
163	7	What do you think about Pammy's hair?
163	8	Share with us your thoughts in the comments below.


164	1	The trainer of "Avantgarde" Vladimir Chebaturkin, speaking about the preparation of his team for the regular KHL championship match against "Salavat", noted that Omsk members conducted a thorough analysis of the defeat against Magnitogorsk "Metallurg".
164	2	The expert emphasized that "Avantgarde" needs to put more focus on the defensive game.
164	3	We watched video of the match against Magnitogorsk "Metallurg", the official site of "Avantgarde" quotes Chebaturkin.
164	4	- We missed a lot of pucks, not a very pleasant time.
164	5	We missed due to our mistakes, due to non-execution of the game plan.
164	6	We knew that the competitor has performers.
164	7	According to statistics they had five attacks straight-off - they drove in three pucks on us.
164	8	Very good implementation.
164	9	Those mistakes were taken into account when preparing for today's game?
164	10	Me and the guys thoroughly analyze each match, talk after the game, prepare for the next competitor.
164	11	Above all - so that the plan is executed.
164	12	Everyone saw the first period of the match against "Metallurg".
164	13	The game plan was being executed, and the score was 2:0.
164	14	They missed the goal "into the locker room" - and in the third period began to make mistakes.
164	15	Considering how difficult the game took shape, I did not see any sense in activating defenders.
164	16	The entire team needs to defend itself.
164	17	Now "Avantgarde" has a long home series, matches take place every other day - has the team accumulated fatigue?
164	18	All teams are under identical conditions.
164	19	The main thing now is actualizing your moments and executing the game plan.
164	20	Hockey is an emotional game, if you execute the plan - everything is solved not so difficult.


165	1	Bombardier profit dips as plane deliveries, orders fall
165	2	Canadian plane and train maker Bombardier Inc reported a 15 percent fall in net profit on Thursday, pressured by fewer aircraft orders and deliveries in the third quarter and contract issues in its train unit.
165	3	Montreal-based Bombardier also did not release any flight test data for its brand-new CSeries aircraft or offer an update on whether the plane will meet its ambitious schedule of going into commercial service by next September.
165	4	After the test plane's inaugural flight about a month and a half ago, it has only flown three more times, raising questions over whether the testing phase is on track.
165	5	Results fell short of forecasts and sent shares sliding more than 8 percent on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
165	6	Cameron Doerksen, an analyst with National Bank Financial, lowered his rating to "sector perform" from "outperform" on Thursday with the view that the stock has limited upside over the next one or two quarters.
165	7	"While the weaker aircraft deliveries were mostly anticipated, we are clearly disappointed by the margin performance in transportation," Doerksen said in a client note.
165	8	We believe that Bombardier will receive new orders for the CSeries as the flight test program progresses.
165	9	However, if no new orders are announced in the coming months, we suspect that the market will become more skeptical of the program.
165	10	Bombardier hopes the CSeries aircraft family can catapult it into the low end of a market now dominated by Boeing and Airbus.
165	11	The first test plane was unveiled in March and took flight for the first time in September after months of delays.
165	12	But firm orders for the CSeries are moderate so far at 177 as potential buyers wait for flight test results to validate the company's claims about the new jetliner's fuel efficiency and cost savings potential.
165	13	There are currently 403 total orders and commitments with 15 customers and operators.
165	14	Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin was confident Bombardier would meet its 300 firm order target by the time the first jet is put into commercial use.
165	15	Executives also reassured analysts and media on Thursday the program was progressing according to schedule.
165	16	"The test plane didn't stay on the ground longer than anticipated," Beaudoin said in a conference call, adding that ground tests and software updates were scheduled during the plane's downtime.
165	17	Every manufacturer schedules it in a different way.
165	18	We had decided to do a first flight and to do an update period and that's what we have done.
165	19	That will happen all through the flight program.
165	20	The second of five test planes is expected to take flight in the coming weeks, with the remainder following shortly after, the company said.
165	21	Still, analysts are skeptical the first customer can begin operating a CSeries plane 12 months after its maiden flight.
165	22	Bombardier said it was evaluating the entry-into-service (EIS) schedule and will provide an update in the next few months.
165	23	"This slow pace of flight testing - although in line with Bombardier's internal schedule apparently - reinforces our view that entry-into-service will be pushed to Q1/15," said Doerksen.
165	24	For the third quarter ended September 30, Bombardier's net profit fell to $147 million, or 8 cents per share, from $172 million, or 9 cents per share a year earlier.
165	25	Adjusted earnings per share were unchanged at 9 cents.
165	26	Revenue dipped marginally to $4.1 billion from $4.2 billion.
165	27	Analysts had expected earnings of 10 cents per share and revenue of $4.56 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
165	28	The world's fourth-largest planemaker said it delivered 45 aircraft during the quarter, down from 57 a year earlier.
165	29	Net orders fell to 26 aircraft, from 83.
165	30	The backlog in the aerospace division was $32.9 billion as of September 30, unchanged from December 31.
165	31	"In aerospace, results were in line with our guidance, but the low order intake and overall market conditions were a disappointment," Beaudoin said.
165	32	Aerospace revenue fell 13 percent to $2 billion.
165	33	Bombardier, the world's largest trainmaker, said revenue in that division rose nearly 11 percent to $2.1 billion.
165	34	The order backlog in the transportation unit was $32.6 billion as of September 30, up marginally from December 31.
165	35	The transportation division's margins were affected by execution issues in a few large contracts.
165	36	Executives said new guidance would be provided in the fourth quarter.
165	37	Shares of Bombardier, which also announced that Google Inc Chief Financial Officer Patrick Pichette would join the board, were down 8.5 percent at C$4.83 in mid afternoon trading on Thursday.
165	38	Brazil's Embraer SA, the world's third-largest commercial planemaker and Bombardier's closest rival, reported a 10 percent fall in quarterly profit on Thursday.


166	1	The president of a Krasnoyarsk court had his ID stolen after being hit on the head
166	2	Unknown persons attacked the president of the Krasnoyarsk regional court Vladimir Dvoekonko, stealing his ID.
166	3	As Interfax reports, late Wednesday evening the perpetrators hit the judge on the head, from which he lost consciousness.
166	4	When the 63-year-old president of the court regained consciousness, he discovered that they had stolen his work ID.
166	5	The perpetrators did not take money or other valuables.
166	6	Dvoekonko made it home by himself but contacted police only on the following day.
166	7	A criminal investigation and search for the perpetrators is being conducted.


167	1	Israeli warplanes attack target inside Syria, official says
167	2	Israeli warplanes struck a target inside the Syrian port city of Latakia Thursday night, a senior administration official confirms to Fox News.
167	3	The official did not specify what the target was, but said there was at least one.
167	4	The Associated Press reports the target was Russian-made SA-125 missiles.
167	5	At least twice earlier this year Israel launched airstrikes on shipments of missiles inside Syria.


168	1	Thorium - the new hope of nuclear power?
168	2	Governments in countries of the entire world continue to think about how to supply energy needs.
168	3	Combustion of hydrocarbons (there where they are) negatively affects climate.
168	4	Renewable energy sources require large areas for generation.
168	5	Nuclear power manages without both of them, but leaves behind itself a mass of wastes expensive to recycle.
168	6	Recently scientists directed attention to thorium - one more radioactive element of the Mendeleev system.
168	7	It is found throughout the world, and, as specialists confirm, its fission does not leave wastes that need to be stored for centuries.


169	1	New terminals will appear in the Moscow metro.
169	2	But they will sell tickets to passengers not for money, but for squats.
169	3	One ride valued at 30 rubles will cost the potential passenger 30 squats.
169	4	The number of squats will be counted by a special device using modern technologies, reports ITAR-TASS citing the press service of the Russian Olympic Committee.
169	5	The first machine will be installed at "Exhibition" station on November 8, 2013.
169	6	The president of the Russian Olympic Committee Alexander Zhukov and Olympic champion gymnasts Aleksei Nemov and Elena Zamolodchikova will take part in the presentation of the new ticketing sport-terminals.


170	1	"Spartak": For information about the persons who hung fascist symbols
170	2	On the official site of "Spartak" appeared an announcement of the Moscow club regarding the appearance of a fascist flag in the stands in Yaroslavl.
170	3	"At the cup match "Shinnik" - "Spartak" on October 30, unknown provocateurs at the stadium in Yaroslavl displayed fascist symbols.
170	4	We appeal to all who possess reliable information about the persons who committed this criminal offense with a request to provide it to the <security department of the Football Club "Spartak-Moscow" at the email address fcsmsec@spartak.com.
170	5	"An award is guaranteed," says the announcement.
170	6	We seek the fans who hung a fascist flag in Yaroslavl
170	7	Let us recall that the Russian Cup 1/16 final match "Shinnik" - "Spartak" was interrupted several times due to disturbances in the stands.
170	8	Also a fascist symbol was displayed in the "Spartak" fan section.
170	9	As punishment Spartak can spend approximately three matches without spectators.
170	10	A committee meeting will be held on Friday.
170	11	If you have information regarding who carried and hung that symbol, please contact us.


171	1	Two YMCA employees charged with sex offences before allegations against Jonathan Lord, Royal Commission hears
171	2	Two YMCA NSW employees had been charged with child sex offences before allegations were raised against Caringbah child care worker Jonathan Lord in 2011, the child sexual abuse Royal Commission has heard.
171	3	But in its opening statement to the Commission it said it had "never dealt with an incident of child sexual assault within its organisation," the Commission was told.
171	4	Chief executive officer Phillip Hare was asked about one case where a YMCA employee was charged child pornography offences, and another when a gym instructor at the YMCA Caringbah Hall was convicted of child sexual offences against children in his care in 1991.
171	5	Mr Hare told Gail Furness, counsel assisting the Commission, he knew about the first case but did not know about the second one.
171	6	He conceded the YMCA's opening statement to the commission was also inaccurate in claiming "there have been external audits of the YMCA that have recognised the YMCA as being at the forefront of child safety."
171	7	Evidence before the commission is that YMCA was notified that it received the second lowest of four possible ratings in a Department of Education and Communities quality audit in August this year.
171	8	Mr Hare, who started with the YMCA when he was 21, conceded management "from myself down" failed by recruiting Lord and failed to make sure staff were clear about their obligations to report child safe policy breaches.
171	9	Earlier this year Lord was convicted for sexual offences against 12 boys during the two years he worked at the YMCA.
171	10	He was jailed for a minimum of six years.
171	11	But Mr Hare rejected the suggestion the YMCA had a cultural problem which prevented staff from reporting Lord's breaches of child safety.
171	12	Staff gave evidence they observed breaches including Lord being alone with children, babysitting them privately, having them sit on his lap, saying he loved one and letting them play with his mobile phone.
171	13	Danielle Ockwell, who was supervised by Lord and asked for child protection training because she was concerned about his behaviour, testified she found the YMCA Caringbah children's services manager Jacqui Barnat who supervised Lord "very intimidating and hard to approach a lot of the time."
171	14	The CEO said he did not accept staff's evidence that they were uncomfortable with reporting upwards to their managers.
171	15	Rather, he said, their friendships with Lord clouded their judgements about reporting him.
171	16	Mr Hare said he had provided his view to the YMCA NSW board that the lesson for the organisation from the "Jonathan Lord incident" was "not about reporting" by staff, and the board agreed with him.
171	17	Mr Hare said the decision to get staff to sign confidentiality agreements soon after the allegations emerged was made by YMCA general manager of children's services Liam Whitley.
171	18	He said it was intended to avoid contamination of evidence but was "overzealous" and poorly executed.
171	19	YMCA NSW was not a child safe organisation at the time Jonathan Lord was employed between 2009 and 2011, child sex abuse expert Professor Stephen Smallbone of Griffith University told the commission.
171	20	He said there were "serious problems" in recruitment, screening, induction, training and supervision of staff.
171	21	The hearing adjourned until December 20.


172	1	Guillaume Nicloux's adaptation of Denis Diderot's novel boasts exceptional production design and period detail but is also heavier going than it should be.
172	2	Unfolding in 1760s France, it tells the grim story of Suzanne, a young aristocrat sent to a convent by her family.
172	3	When she rebels, she experiences extreme cruelty at the hands of a wantonly sadistic Mother Superior and becomes an object of erotic fascination for another.
172	4	The film never slips into prurience or sensationalism - and that's the problem.
172	5	The earnest solemnity of the storytelling risks making it a hair shirt-like ordeal for audiences, too.


173	1	U.S. intelligence agencies wiretap the personal telephone of the Pope of Rome
173	2	The activity of the Vatican is under the vigilant surveillance of American intelligence agencies.
173	3	New documents from the collection of Edward Snowden show evidence that U.S. intelligence conducted wiretapping of all conversations of the former Pope Benedict, and now closely watches Pope Francis.
173	4	His telephone began to be wiretapped even before he became the head of the Vatican.
173	5	The process of electing the new Pope was also under surveillance.
173	6	To which they assigned special emphasis in the U.S.
173	7	An intelligence agency tapped into the cell phones of cardinals who gathered in Rome to select the next Pope.
173	8	Telephones of the residence where participants of the conclave lived were also wiretapped.
173	9	American spies wiretapped all main contenders for the papacy in order to prevent a figure undesirable to Washington from emerging on it.
173	10	The journal "Panorama" writes that the "big ear of the U.S." continued to intercept conversations of prelates until the very completion of the conclave on March 12.
173	11	It is asserted that in 2005 Argentine archbishop Bergolio was singled out as the future Pope of Rome.
173	12	American intelligence also tracked negotiations associated with the elections of the new president of Vatican Bank.
173	13	An Italian journal writes that in the U.S. embassy in Rome a secret group of CIA and NSA operatives continues to work, obtaining information on politicians and financial streams.
173	14	In its turn, the Vatican conciliatively announced that American "wiretapping" does not worry it even if it does occur.
173	15	The holy fathers hold no secrets from U.S. leadership.


174	1	Ben Greenman: The Tenth Anniversary of the New York Comedy Festival: The New Yorker
174	2	One could argue that New York City is the birthplace of standup comedy in America: nearly a hundred years ago, the vaudevillian Frank Fay, who served as the master of ceremonies at the Palace Theatre, on Broadway, started telling jokes directly to the crowd, in a conversational manner.
174	3	Fay's innovation has been extended through the years, most recently by the New York Comedy Festival.
174	4	Created and overseen by Caroline Hirsch, the founder of the standup institution Carolines, the festival celebrates its tenth anniversary this year, with more than sixty shows at small clubs and large theatres.
174	5	"Most of these headliners appeared at Carolines, and went on to greater success, to the point where they're too big to play a club," Hirsch said.
174	6	We built this festival as a way of continuing to work with them.
174	7	This year's event includes appearances by Wanda Sykes, Kathy Griffin, and Bill Maher, as well as "Stand Up for Heroes," an annual music-and-comedy benefit for military veterans, at Madison Square Garden, featuring, among others, Bruce Springsteen, Jon Stewart, Roger Waters, and Bill Cosby.
174	8	As the festival has expanded, so has the world of comedy.
174	9	Several of the comedians participating in this year's festival came up through nontraditional channels, such as shows on smaller networks, like Comedy Central, FX, and Spike.
174	10	Nick Kroll rose to prominence on a deep-cable sitcom (FXX's gleefully raunchy fantasy-football-themed "The League") and now has his own Comedy Central sketch show.
174	11	Jenny Slate has been a cast member on both "Saturday Night Live" and "Parks and Recreation," though she is best known for her viral video series "Marcel the Shell with Shoes On."
174	12	Both Kroll and Slate, as well as other young comedians with distinctive voices (the surreally pessimistic Anthony Jeselnik, the wry, racially focussed W. Kamau Bell), are products of the decentralized world of American comedy.
174	13	One of the festival's biggest draws will be an interview: David Steinberg talking to Larry David.
174	14	Steinberg started as a standup comedian but has become an accomplished television and film director, as well as an unofficial comedy historian.
174	15	From 2005 to 2007, he hosted a show on TV Land called "Sit Down Comedy with David Steinberg."
174	16	The meeting takes place at Town Hall, in the center of Manhattan.
174	17	"The city is definitely in the comedy DNA of all of Larry's work," Steinberg said.
174	18	He was telling me that, when he's here, sometimes he'll walk down an alley between two buildings and think to himself, Hey, if I lose all my money, maybe I'll live here.


175	1	Police detained a shooter in the Los Angeles airport
175	2	Police detained a shooting suspect in the Los Angeles airport.
175	3	Previously it became known that in one of the airport terminals shots were fired from a rifle.
175	4	Police and rescue services evacuated people from the building.
175	5	The perpetrator was wounded in a shootout with police, there is no information about his identity.
175	6	Police are searching for his possible accomplices.
175	7	Presumably, several people were injured during the shootout.
175	8	It is noted that Barack Obama has been informed of the incident.


