

1	1	germany is the first in europe enters an uncertain " " floor when registering children
1	2	germany will be the first country in europe , where will be allowed in the registration of children born гермафродитами__germafroditami instead of male or female indicate " " uncertain .
1	3	the parents of the child will be the right time to leave the earl " paul " in birth certificate незаполненной__nezapolnennoy .
1	4	instead of " f " ( female gender ) or " m " ( male ) parents can at a time of record " x " ( uncertain ) .
1	5	this decision is aimed at the not to push parents to hurry with the operation to " " definition of sex .
1	6	according to the statistics , one in 2,000 babies in the world is born гермафродитом__germafroditom .


2	1	anger over the verdict to the organizers of the terrorist attack in bali
2	2	the remaining survivors and relatives of 202 died as a result of the bombing in bali in 2002 , reacted angrily to the verdict of the last of the conspirators , who appeared before the court and stated that umar patek should be shot .
2	3	patek , who spent nearly 10 years on the run as one of the most wanted men in south-east asia , was yesterday sentenced to 20 years in prison for his role in building the explosive devices used in the attack .
2	4	he could be freed within 15 years if she gets parole .
2	5	45th and the defendant was found guilty of mass murder as a result of attacks on two night club in the popular tourist area of kuta , during which killed 202 people , including 88 australians , and injured dozens more .
2	6	he was also found guilty on a number of other charges related to terrorism , including in a wave of bombings of churches across indonesia on christmas eve in 2000 .
2	7	prosecutors have demanded life imprisonment , although they could insist that the man , nicknamed “ the master подрывником__podryvnikom ” for his reputation for making explosives , should be sentenced to death .
2	8	this decision has painful memories of the mother from perth june кортин__kortin , which lost its 39-летних__39-letnikh дочерей-близнецов__docherey-bliznetsov jane and jenny in the terrorist attack , and his осуществленном__osushchestvlennom патеком__patekom сообщниками__soobshchnikami almost ten years ago .
2	9	barely concealing his own tears , she said that patek was supposed to be sentenced to death .
2	10	“ i really believe that he should follow in the footsteps of other guys .
2	11	he must appear before расстрельной__rasstrelnoy team , ” said ms. кортин__kortin aap .
2	12	“ i have to live every day knowing that i will no longer be grandchildren and i don ’ t see my daughters . ”
2	13	“ the sari club ” was destroyed when it was set in motion a massive explosive device , implicit in a van parked outside , just after 11 p.m. on october 12 , 2002 .
2	14	peter hughes was in the bar “ paddy ” , where a suicide bomber detonated a backpack , with a ton of explosives , only 20 seconds earlier .
2	15	after that attack , he fell into a coma and a month “ died ” three times , being connected to a life-support system .
2	16	mr hughes said that patek should share the fate of three other members of the terrorist cell of jemaah islamiyah , responsible for a bloodbath — амрози__amrozi , мухласа__mukhlasa and imam самудры__samudry who were executed four years ago .
2	17	indeed , this guy deserves the death penalty all the more .
2	18	to save his life , well , there is no reason to save his life .
2	19	get 20 years after killed 202 people and wounded hundreds is not so much .
2	20	patek is the last of the terrorist attack in bali , представшим__predstavshim before a court of law .
2	21	he was hiding for almost a decade , but in the end was arrested in january 2011 in the pakistani town of abbottabad , where u.s. forces killed former al qaeda boss osama bin laden less than four months later .
2	22	during the trial , an fbi agent testified that the intelligence testified : patek was in pakistan to meet bin laden in an attempt to restore the ties between southeast asian terrorist groups and al-qaeda .
2	23	“ he didn ’ t give up , ” said ms. кортин__kortin .
2	24	until recently he regretted nothing about how much grief he caused others .
2	25	the judge in the run-up to the 10th anniversary of the terrorist attack , which will be celebrated later this year in bali and australia .
2	26	“ this year there will be a lot of tears , ” said ms. кортин__kortin .
2	27	patek can still appeal his sentence .


3	1	medvedev hopes that airplane ssj-100 will be supplied to europe
3	2	russia expects that after fastening on the markets of latin america and asia planes superjet 100 will be supplied to europe .
3	3	“ we calculate that in total we will get such agreements on more than 170 of the planes of a similar type " , the interfax news agency the words of the prime minister of russia , dmitry medvedev , they said at a press conference with the prime minister of france жан-марком__zhan-markom эйро__eyro .
3	4	the head of the russian government noted that with french colleagues have serious cooperation , because this is a joint project .
3	5	today we discussed some financial questions connected with insurance , but we hope that after this plane will be strengthened in the markets of latin america and the asia pacific region , he also will be supplied to our partners in europe .
3	6	“ i hope that he will someday be shipped to france , ” said the russian prime minister .
3	7	ssj-100 - jet built by sukhoi in partnership with alenia aermacchi .
3	8	the airliner is designed on the basis of modern technologies and offers the highest standards of quality and comfort in the segment of the 100 seats .


4	1	chicago goalie nikolai " " хабибулин__khabibulin stressed : he understands that he has to play better .
4	2	according to the 40-year-old russian , he will continue to work hard in training .
4	3	in the last two meetings " hawks " хабибулин__khabibulin initially missed six washers from " тампа-бэй__tampa-bey " and then four - from ottawa " " , with the second game he was replaced after the fourth пропущенной__propushchennoy washers .
4	4	we need to play well , and in the last two games for me this failed - leads csnchicago words хабибулина__khabibulina .
4	5	- i have to find confidence in training , perhaps , is how to approach him to the games and try to achieve the best result .
4	6	you need to examine your past games and work on those weaknesses were .
4	7	there are a few small components that i need to improve , but in training i feel reasonably well .
4	8	but for some reason , after several heads all turned into a snowball .
4	9	perhaps i have to relax a bit .
4	10	goalkeepers - i do not think that this one is always trying to make the perfect play .
4	11	if i miss a four , five , six , i am not enthusiastic .
4	12	no matter what happens in front of my gate .
4	13	i still work on yourself , not to miss so much washers .
4	14	cool that my одноклубники__odnoklubniki support , but in fact all is simple : i must play better .
4	15	two games is not the whole season , but i wanted to spend it much better .
4	16	but what happened , happened .
4	17	i have to put it aside .
4	18	i will try to play better next match .


5	1	energy днепропетровщины__dnepropetrovshchiny launched a unique program to rescue ... nests storks
5	2	in olden times to привадить__privadit to the court of storks , villagers in the high post installed from the wheel carts , and heavy nest has held well on it .
5	3	such special poles have not , however , put storks chosen posts transmission lines , interlacing branches rest on the wires , making аистиный__aistinyy house is safe .
5	4	grandmother anne , which is near the house in the village of i̇vanovka петриковского__petrikovskogo district already twenty years lives аистиная__aistinaya family began to notice how nest settles , despite the best efforts of its inhabitants .
5	5	birds put on top of new branches so as , while the lower layer has already fell between the wires , is about to collapse .
5	6	of course , a family of storks , which each year at the metochion гнездились__gnezdilis , transmit and выкармливали__vykarmlivali for summer three or four chicks , but remain without light does not want .
5	7	once the birds departed in warm regions , grandmother anne called the tsarychanka depn , which owns pivot .
5	8	and not even expect there to react so quickly .
5	9	when our specialists arrived in ивановку__ivanovku , they were surprised that nest in general still holds , said technical director , dtek " днепрооблэнерго__dneprooblenergo " sergei berezovsky .
5	10	the wires , which were , in fact , already inside the nest , весящего__vesyashchego 150 - 200 kilograms , began corrosion .
5	11	at any moment birds could die from electrical discharge .
5	12	yes , local people risked losing light due to damage to the wires .
5	13	however linear монтеры__montery began the operation to rescue the nests , and not for the first time already in our practice .
5	14	helped ученые-орнитологи__uchenye-ornitologi from dnepropetrovsk national university , who have developed a scheme of transferring the nest .
5	15	they also held trainings for the employees of regional networks .
5	16	famous dnepropetrovsk орнитолог__ornitolog alexander ponomarenko advised power at all stages of the reconstruction of the nests .
5	17	for the estimate that in the area are in an awful state more than 50 apartments аистиных__aistinykh " " .
5	18	for their renovation were boiled special metal platform , reminiscent of the funnel .
5	19	the оплели__opleli ивовыми__ivovymi branches , and then moved to the old nest .
5	20	according to experts , the old enough to lay lines as a basis to birds nest found and returned to him .
5	21	then the storks достроят__dostroyat his house .
5	22	a month ago in the village of gerbil новомосковского__novomoskovskogo district was reconstructed the first nest .
5	23	near электроопорой__elektrooporoy put new reinforced concrete pole and placed it on the platform with the old , already обжитым__obzhitym nest .
5	24	the whole operation cost power producers in nine thousand uah .
5	25	and the other day a housewarming party was held in the village of i̇vanovka петриковского__petrikovskogo district at the metochion grandmother ani .
5	26	here the platform secured to the same place , only приподняли__pripodnyali over the wires .
5	27	орнитологи__ornitologi sure cautious , conservative birds did not even notice that their spring " " apartment was overhauled .
5	28	before the end of the year as it expects another four in the nest and holy protection areas царичанском__tsarichanskom днепропетровщины__dnepropetrovshchiny .
5	29	by the way , while some are saving rare birds , other them ruthlessly killed .
5	30	the other day , the whole area around the sad news - in the village of усть-каменка__ust-kamenka апостоловского__apostolovskogo district , on the opening day of the hunting pheasants , poachers shot for entertainment , has family обитавшую__obitavshuyu at a local pond .
5	31	noble bird is not afraid of people - locals fed them and not be abused .
5	32	when the villagers heard the shots , прибежали__pribezhali to pond , four красавцев-лебедей__krasavtsev-lebedey was already lying dead in the water .
5	33	now staff апостоловского__apostolovskogo райотдела__rayotdela police find out who shot the birds entered in the red book .


6	1	trapped in the chita american boeing prepares to launch
6	2	who has carried out in the framework of the treaty on open skies observation flights over the territory of russia and true wednesday незапланированную__nezaplanirovannuyu landing in chita american aircraft on friday , november 1 , at 8 : 30 am moscow time air leaves the harbour city .
6	3	the airport management has authorized the departure board , receiving denga for fuel .
6	4	as it was informed at the airport , the plane вылетит__vyletit in ulan-ude .
6	5	according to other data , he would in the united states .
6	6	as reported , crash in ulan-ude , the aircraft landed in забайкальском__zabaykalskom territory because of fog .
6	7	because of unpaid invoices it did not leave the airport chita .
6	8	on board there are 30 people , including crew , they spent two nights at the airport , according to itar-tass .
6	9	according to the ministry of foreign affairs of the russian federation , according to the terms of the treaty on open skies , находящиеся__nakhodyashchiesya on board an aircraft , people do not have the right to go outside the airport , chita , and they can pass border control in only two airports in russia - кубинке__kubinke and in ulan-ude .
6	10	the treaty on open skies was signed in 1992 , 34 states participate in it .
6	11	observant flights are on the territories of russia , the usa , canada , the countries of europe .
6	12	the main objectives of the treaty - the development of transparency , the promotion of monitoring the implementation of the agreements in the area of arms control , expanding opportunities for prevention of crises and resolve the crisis situations in the framework of the osce and other international organizations .


7	1	vitaly mutko at : water cannon ?
7	2	it seems to me that we are 15 years ago have returned .
7	3	the minister of sport vitaly mutko at voiced his opinion about the unrest in the stands during the match cup 's " shinnik stadium " " spartacus .
7	4	i am a supporter of that for all it told organizers of sporting events : the clubs , the league , the rfu .
7	5	but we can see that they have borrowed дргую__drguyu position .
7	6	they expect that someone would come by and наведет__navedet order .
7	7	this is a very good position but not quite correct .
7	8	we need to organize supporters , clubs should invite their stewards and not let it go .
7	9	we now have developed a special government decree on the rules of conduct in stadiums .
7	10	after it is adopted , we will close this problem .
7	11	but i still have to invite themselves to all organizers of football in the process .
7	12	i read an interview with leonid федуна__feduna .
7	13	the state , they say , let the law right quickly .
7	14	this feeling that it is fans " bavaria " in yaroslavl arrived and everything is arranged .
7	15	and we are outsiders .
7	16	but in general it is terrible to see how the podium from top брандспойта__brandspoyta .
7	17	and this in a country that is preparing for the world cup .
7	18	“ i have a feeling that we have returned to 10-15 years ago , " mutko at said .


8	1	a lawyer with кокаиновой__kokainovoy addiction who warned crime gang boss about the police investigation , jailed
8	2	42-летний__42-letniy башарат__basharat дитта__ditta transferred information criminal authority nile scarborough
8	3	the lawyer was afraid that his secret drug addiction will be revealed
8	4	he was sentenced to three years imprisonment ливерпульским__liverpulskim royal court .
8	5	the prestigious lawyer who told наркобарону__narkobaronu about major police investigation because he was afraid of exposing his secret drug dependence , was jailed for three years .
8	6	42-летний__42-letniy башарат__basharat дитта__ditta transferred criminal authority nile scarborough classified information about the investigation into his activities by trafficking drugs after has been threatened because of his becoming cocaine addicts .
8	7	the lawyer , received nickname bash and nicknamed among criminals “ steep ” lawyer , was arrested at home in 2011 after a police operation to monitor scarborough , which he represented before the court , associated with drugs .
8	8	officers noticed as 32-year-old scarborough left three sachets with cocaine at home have a lawyer in the town of blackburn , lancashire county while he was at the dinner of the association of lawyers with colleagues .
8	9	investigation exposes that дитта__ditta “ regularly ” used the class a drug after tests showed traces of cocaine in his hair , his wallet and credit cards .
8	10	during the eight months from january to august 2011 , he tried to illegally obtain information about the arrests of two men on behalf of scarborough , as well as one of his accomplices .
8	11	all four suspects were in this time of under police supervision under a large-scale investigation into the activities of the criminal organization in the distribution of heroin and cocaine in lancashire , cambriae , мерсисайде__mersisayde , berkshire and west yorkshire .
8	12	they and another 32 people were later jailed after were seized by police during a series of raids heroin and cocaine worth £ 1.5 million and more than £ 200,000 in cash .
8	13	42-летний__42-letniy дитта__ditta transferred information criminals because of fear that his кокаиновая__kokainovaya dependence will be uncovered .
8	14	today at the royal court ливерпульском__liverpulskom дитта__ditta , who works in a law firm forbes solicitors based in блэкберне__blekberne , was coated in disgrace after acknowledging his guilt in two cases of intentional obstruction of justice on the court in трехнедельного__trekhnedelnogo ливерпульском__liverpulskom crown court .
8	15	he admitted possession of cocaine in one of the previous court sessions .
8	16	the revelation of the lawyer came after police activity расследующая__rassleduyushchaya scarborough , has found that he regularly spoke by phone with дитта__ditta since february 2011 .
8	17	the two detective followed up on suspects and found , as he approached the home in дитта__ditta блэкберне__blekberne and put drugs 60-процентной__60-protsentnoy purity in black перчатке__perchatke golf course under garbage boxes of a lawyer .
8	18	shortly after the broadcast , scarborough repeatedly with созванивался__sozvanivalsya дитта__ditta , who was at the dinner at the football stadium at ewood park , the blackburn rovers f.c. team . ”
8	19	lawyer returned home for drugs ; nine conversations took place between them .
8	20	the court heard that дитта__ditta “ regularly ” used cocaine , after tests found traces of the class a drug in his hair , his wallet and credit cards .
8	21	дитта__ditta was later arrested , but denied the use of cocaine , said he spoke with the suspected dealer , because that was his client , and insisted that their communication is “ secret law firm . ”
8	22	during his detention дитта__ditta took his wallet and tried to remove a few credit cards , but all of them were confiscated , he had also been taken a sample of hair .
8	23	in a police interview he said that along with the workplace , he had and the home office , and customers came to his home on legal matters .
8	24	the court , however , it became known that after major arrests , he called one of the largest participants in the drug trafficking , a number of which he previously represented in court to tell of what detectives know about them .
8	25	the accusatorial speech ann wight said : “ if anyone and knows that should not violate the law , then it is an attorney in criminal cases . ”
8	26	mr дитта__ditta is accused of abusing his position of counsel in criminal cases because he came in too close relations with certain customers .
8	27	contact about which we say is not just наркоторговец__narkotorgovets and наркоторговец__narkotorgovets that supplies the drugs of their own lawyer .
8	28	some of his conversations , of course , turn out to be valid , because he was their advocate .
8	29	however , it largely shifted the boundaries of normal relations between lawyer and client .
8	30	he headed off to the police investigation as hard as it may be to enable these individuals to continue their criminal activity .
8	31	mr дитта__ditta 't honoured for their profession and its позорил__pozoril .
8	32	he too moved closer to certain customers , in particular , scarborough and allowed the doubt in his non-interest .
8	33	дитта__ditta 't admitted guilt and said : “ if i was a corrupt lawyer , which i am not , and i would like to convey the information mr. scarborough , i would not wait for 15 hours , i would have done it immediately . ”
8	34	but after meeting senior officer lee halstead , of lancashire police , said : “ mr дитта__ditta turned from counsel in criminal cases in the criminal offender , i started to buy drugs from representatives of organized crime . ”
8	35	his addiction to cocaine made him hopelessly скомпрометированным__skomprometirovannym and vulnerable for the purposes of the main participants in the criminal gangs that leave him to extract valuable information about the police investigation .
8	36	lawyers must adhere to the highest standards of professional ethics and persuade the public trust and confidence .
8	37	mr дитта__ditta betrayed that trust and tried to hide behind his profession .
8	38	the investigation into mr дитта__ditta led a division of lancashire in a particularly dangerous organized crime , which has already secured for him the sentence on three occasions storage of cocaine , and now by воспрепятствованию__vosprepyatstvovaniyu of justice , demonstrating our desire to achieve a fair punishment for criminals .
8	39	let this case will serve as a warning to criminals that nobody is beyond the reach of the law .
8	40	we will find you and attract to justice .
8	41	the scarborough was sentenced to 14 years after acknowledging his guilt in collusion with the purpose to supply heroin , cocaine and marijuana .
8	42	another 35 people involved in the fraud , were sentenced to a total of 153 years for drug-related crimes .
8	43	on its website the conversation дитта__ditta arranged in the form of questions and answers , in which he says that his dream job — a lawyer representing clients with the death sentence in america , the perfect companion for him over dinner — muhammad ali , and the motivation to work is inequality .


9	1	the manufacturers of jet aircraft feud over seat width , when large orders at stake
9	2	between the leading manufacturers of aircraft inflamed violent dispute about the width of the tourist class seats on long flights , setting the tone for a bitter confrontation at the dubai air show this month .
9	3	the dispute focuses on the dynamic of the width of the seats available to passengers on long-haul flights in economy class , whose interests are not always the centre of attention of the airlines , with the amount of space allocated to them plays a key role in statements about the effectiveness of the latest aircraft offered by boeing co and airbus sas .
9	4	airbus this week called for the introduction of industry standard , which would have included the width of the seat at least 18 inches ( 46 cm ) in economy class salons , but its main american rival , boeing says it must solve the airline .
9	5	the dispute comes at a time when the aircraft manufacturers compete in sales of increasingly large versions of their двухмоторных__dvukhmotornykh long-haul aircraft and 17 at the event – 21 november expected potentially record orders .
9	6	the layout of the rear part of the plane — especially the sitting whether 9 or 10 people in a row — occupies a central place in statements about the economic performance of new projects “ мини-аэробусов__mini-aerobusov . ”
9	7	boeing argues that its new 777x will be reduced to 406 people on the basis of seats in economy class more than 17 inches in width , placed on the 10 in each row .
9	8	airbus says that its competing version of the a350 will be transported in эконом-классе__ekonom-klasse 350 people on seats 18 inches wide , located on nine in a row .
9	9	aircraft manufacturing giants often exchanged blows on technical issues with the help of professional advertising in the press .
9	10	and now , airbus is appealing directly to the public before авиашоу__aviashou in dubai , where the 777x , is expected to become a leader with more than 100 orders .
9	11	she recently demonstrated what may be the beginning of a new advertising war , showing financiers slide , representing three people in the restaurant , прижатых__prizhatykh to each other , titled “ you would agree to that ? ”
9	12	“ boeing offers дальнемагистральные__dalnemagistralnye flights on seats narrower than the regional turboprop aircraft , ” said airbus sales chief john лихи__likhi .
9	13	with the change of diet of people gaining weight , but самолетные__samoletnye seats have not changed dramatically .
9	14	between the beginning of the 1970s , when the wide-body boeing 747 asked modern standards and long-distance travel abroad century average weight of american men aged 40 to 49 years has increased by 10 percent , according to the department of health of the united states .
9	15	обхват__obkhvat waist of the average american male of the 21st century is 39.7 inches , according to the statistics of the u.s. public health service .
9	16	airbus says that its rival is committed to the concept of the seats of the 1950s , when the average waist обхват__obkhvat those recently called “ reactive ” , the audience was already .
9	17	airbus says that ordered a study indicating that an extra inch in seat width improves the quality of sleep by 53 percent .
9	18	boeing disputed airbus figures on the size of seats and said that manufacturers should not interfere in decisions about how airlines to find balance between tariffs and amenities .
9	19	she said studies show that the convenience of salon depends not only on the width of the seats .
9	20	“ it really comes down to providing airlines choice and the opportunity to do what they believe they need to do to succeed , ” said specialist boeing on saloon kent крейвер__kreyver .
9	21	they do not want us to be solved for them that will bring them profits .
9	22	they know their business better than anyone else .
9	23	for passengers , the question is to increase the space on the sides , but for suppliers it is increasingly becoming a factor that can affect profits .
9	24	behind this dispute is the race for orders for planes , at least in the $ 700 billion on каталожным__katalozhnym prices in the coming decades — enough to change the balance of the american and european exports .
9	25	as first reported by reuters in july the agency , the location of the seats is what fuels rivalry in the battle between the latest reactive aircraft .
9	26	both airbus and boeing , as well as announcing 20-процентном__20-protsentnom improving profitability at one place in their latest long-haul двухмоторных__dvukhmotornykh models compared with the market leader in this segment , 365-местным__365-mestnym boeing 777-300er .
9	27	the claimed characteristics of boeing are based in part on comparing 10-местных__10-mestnykh rows 777x with original 9-местной__9-mestnoy layout of constructive solutions 777 .
9	28	the win in the specific cost decreases when compared with 10-местной__10-mestnoy layout used currently .
9	29	“ the reason why boeing makes it , is to squeeze more seats and make their aircraft more competitive compared with our development , ” said kevin кенистон__keniston , airbus head of passenger comfort in europe .
9	30	on the other hand , analysts say the parlors with full 10-местными__10-mestnymi rows for existing 777-х__777-kh indicate that many passengers prefer dense be made on seating arrangements , which can go hand in hand with lower fares .
9	31	“ seat width of 18 inches would be ideal for passengers , but the reality is that from a commercial point of view offer airbus due to the threat from 777-й__777-y model , ” said specialist interior salon mary kirby , founder and editor of runway girl network .
9	32	airbus and boeing does not provide chairs , but offer the catalogue of suppliers from which airlines can select .
9	33	exploring the world of the jets even with blocking a roulette to check the competing plans .
9	34	praising the comfort , all manufacturers also offer aircraft with very dense layout salon for budget airlines and regional flights .
9	35	airbus offers the a350 with 10-местными__10-mestnymi rows , but says she still does not sell it .
9	36	until recently , the airbus highlighted the need for additional modifications salons offering broader aisle seats on some of its planes .
9	37	without the support of the only other manufacturer of large modern aircraft , as the experts say , it is unlikely to appeal to the new industry standard “ will soar , ” but it might distract attention from the wave of sales models of 777x .


10	1	олейников__oleynikov : a third of rural settlements reported by fully дотационные__dotatsionnye
10	2	the vice governor of the moscow region yury олейников__oleynikov said that almost a third of rural settlements , moscow region are completely дотационными__dotatsionnymi
10	3	the subsidies from the budget of the region get 187 settlements of 288 .
10	4	in 2013 , 187 288 settlements from receiving subsidies from the regional budget .
10	5	the share of grants in the budget income 122 rural settlements exceed 50 % and 83 - 100 percent дотационные__dotatsionnye .
10	6	in the framework of the budget funding from the regional budget is about 25 billion rubles , " said олейников__oleynikov .
10	7	vice-governor also noted that only in three towns - мытищ__mytishch , odintsovo and pushkino - the volume of budget revenues of more than $ 1 billion rubles for 2013 .
10	8	the incomes of rural settlements of many areas of less than 3 million rubles , " this entirely lacks " .
10	9	the costs of local administrative machinery in 88 settlements " region is over 70 % , while a lower quality of services , " олейников__oleynikov said .
10	10	earlier , he instructed the heads of municipal formations region until the end of november to consider what villages need укрупнении__ukrupnenii , uniting in urban districts or change the system of administrative management .
10	11	these proposals will be tested by the end of january .
10	12	prior to that , moscow region governor , stated that in the framework of the administrative reform in the moscow region is planned to reduce the number of дотационных__dotatsionnykh rural settlements .
10	13	also in можайском__mozhayskom , каширском__kashirskom , солнечногорском__solnechnogorskom , kolomenskoye districts and municipalities have люберцах__lyubertsakh котельниках__kotelnikakh request for enlargement .
10	14	discussion of this issue in cities and districts of the region will begin in november .
10	15	chairman igor мособлдумы__mosobldumy брынцалов__bryntsalov also said that all unite in the upcoming адмреформы__admreformy plan about 30 rural settlements in 12 areas of the region .
10	16	this is connected with the fact that out of 178 rural settlements in the moscow region less than a third have acceptable " " financial base , and 100 - дотационные__dotatsionnye .


11	1	concern about security in mozambique due to escalating the conflict of influential people
11	2	under взирающей__vzirayushchey at them down the statue in zamora , машела__mashela президента-основателя__prezidenta-osnovatelya mozambique , thousands of people gathered in downtown maputo , to chant slogans about peace on one of the rare demonstrations here .
11	3	“ we want to return peace ; we want stability , ” said vanessa де-суса__de-susa , executive director of the investment company .
11	4	fearing for the future of their country , she traded a business suit on a t-shirt decorated the inscription “ we demand security ” in portuguese , and joined in the capital on thursday to a crowd in independence square .
11	5	within two weeks there were almost daily reports of clashes between government forces and ренамо__renamo — it is one of the most violent clashes since the signing of the ceasefire , more than 20 years ago .
11	6	ренамо__renamo was once known rebel movement , which was driven by the first white government of rhodesia , and then the government of the south africa of the apartheid era in an effort to destabilize the government of an independent country .
11	7	after the armistice of 1992 it became the opposition party .
11	8	analysts believe that the country is unlikely to again скатится__skatitsya for full conflict , but recent events have made me nervous foreign investors and local residents .
11	9	the stakes are high for the fast-growing economy , since the discovery of huge offshore gas reserves and coal deposits in the northwest could attract more than $ 50 billion , as investment in the next few years , from companies such as rio tinto , vale of brazil , eni of italy and anadarko of the us .
11	10	the ruling party , frelimo , a leading political force since 1975 , and the party ренамо__renamo accuse each other in this tension .
11	11	party ренамо__renamo argues that the government has become the latest challenger collisions , attacking its members in the province of sofala , traditional an ренамо__renamo , 17 october .
11	12	the attack on the former rebels then escalated when government forces attacked a base ренамо__renamo and attempted to kill afonso дхлакаму__dkhlakamu — the leader of the group , told the newspaper the financial times fernando мазанга__mazanga , representative ренамо__renamo .
11	13	the government blames ренамо__renamo in triggering clashes , accusing the party in an attack on soldiers .
11	14	president armando guebuza tried to allay fears of instability .
11	15	guebuza told afp , the french information agency on wednesday that mr. дхлакама__dkhlakama felt “ loser ” захотевшим__zakhotevshim use “ all that is left of his forces to try to prove that he can impose the government own decisions . ”
11	16	as frelimo and ренамо__renamo insist that they want to avoid war .
11	17	but worries have grown after reports that said мазанга__mazanga refusal ренамо__renamo from the peace agreement of 1992 .
11	18	he told the financial times that meant frelimo party to the agreement .
11	19	“ our goal is to return to talks , but very seriously , ” said мазанга__mazanga .
11	20	previous talks between the parties have done little to ease tensions , which led to a series of clashes this year .
11	21	“ this is two influential person ( and ) guebuza дхлакама__dkhlakama struggling against , ” said joseph ханлон__khanlon lecturer , open university and an expert on mozambique .
11	22	none of them is a good negotiator and none of them is ready to go on the necessary concessions .
11	23	party ренамо__renamo , which tries to get electoral reform , has already announced that it will boycott municipal elections scheduled for november .
11	24	presidential and parliamentary elections are scheduled for next year .
11	25	some commentators have interpreted it as an attempt to pressure ослабевшего__oslabevshego movement to achieve concessions and financial bonuses from the government .
11	26	the share of votes for ренамо__renamo decreases since 1992 , while a new party - the democratic movement of mozambique ( mdm ) , which was founded by former member of ренамо__renamo is expected to improve their performance in these elections .
11	27	mr мазанга__mazanga says that mr guebuza , who is to step down next year , when ends his second term , wants to destroy democracy in the country .
11	28	“ he doesn ’ t want a multi-party democracy , he did not want to transparent elections , he does not want peace , because he does not want to leave the post of president , ” said мазанга__mazanga .
11	29	it is unclear what possibilities has ренамо__renamo , but she has already had devastating and rapid attacks on police stations and cars on the motorway leading from the north to the south .
11	30	most of the clashes took place in the province of sofala province , which is just a few hundred kilometres north of maputo , but includes бейру__beyru — port that mining companies , including rio tinto and vale , use to export coal .
11	31	in june , rio has suspended use of the railways for about a week after ренамо__renamo threatened an attack on the railroad .
11	32	мазанга__mazanga was уклончив__uklonchiv when he asked a question about whether repeat ренамо__renamo this threat .
11	33	the party “ ренамо__renamo wanted to warn the international community about what matters in mozambique are not very good , ” said мазанга__mazanga .
11	34	instability has added to discontent with the government , but many people are also concerned about corruption , slow pace of development and recently more frequent kidnappings , says fernando lima , head of mediacoop independent media companies .
11	35	“ people think that the responsibility for the future of the country are the government and the president , who must find a solution to these problems , ” he said .
11	36	omar султуан__sultuan , participated in the demonstration , said that people just want stability .
11	37	“ nobody cares neither ренамо__renamo nor frelimo , they just want a renewal of the world , they want to free access to the roads , ” he said .


12	1	rules for the use of electronic devices on aircraft in australia so far will remain in force
12	2	australian airlines and passengers will need further off their tablets and smartphones during take-off and landing in the united states , despite the measures to mitigate the regulations relating to data devices .
12	3	the federal aviation administration , the united states has allowed u.s. carriers to change its procedures so that passengers could read electronic books , watch videos or play games on their devices during takeoff and landing , provided that those will remain in flight mode " " .
12	4	passengers can already do this during the main part of the flight , but many annoying that they do not have access to their electronic books during takeoff and landing .
12	5	australian carriers consider this decision , потребовавшее__potrebovavshee from american airlines to spend a huge amount of work to meet the new requirements , but pointed out that they are not planning to in the near future to change its procedures .
12	6	in managing the safety of civil aviation also noted that they consider this statement , but stressed that the restrictions on the use of electronic devices during critical phases of flight still ​ ​ operate in australia .
12	7	“ the safety of civil aviation is currently has no specific regulations governing the use of electronic devices in aircraft , ” it said .
12	8	this issue is regulated by rules that require air carriers to ensure the maintenance of safety at any time , and from passengers — to comply with safety rules , of which they are members of the crew .
12	9	the company virgin , which has already discussed with the safety of civil aviation expansion of its onboard entertainment system with wi-fi , was not opposed to changes , but said that it would follow the directions of the regulator .
12	10	“ we would have welcomed the review of the safety of civil aviation question about allowing the use of electronic devices because we really think this will improve the quality of customer service now , when she ( wireless ) on-board entertainment system have on our aircraft , ” the spokesman said .
12	11	qantas said it would adhere to the existing rules at the moment .
12	12	“ our current policy is that electronic devices may not be used during takeoff and landing , and soon we are not planning to change it , ” she said .
12	13	faa decision applies to american airlines .
12	14	nevertheless , we are always interested in regulatory changes that could benefit passengers , and we will , of course , carefully study the faa decision and the reasons that caused it .
12	15	for carriers in the united states the impact will vary from airline to airline and will depend on the age of their авиапарка__aviaparka .
12	16	carriers will have to prove that their airplanes have resistance to радиопомехам__radiopomekham from mobile devices , as well as to revise manuals , training materials , guidelines on trafficking of carry-on luggage and instructions for passengers .
12	17	“ after the airline will inspect and confirm помехоустойчивость__pomekhoustoychivost its fleet , it can allow passengers to use portable , easy electronic devices such as tablets , smartphones , electronic books and at any altitude , ” the faa stated .
12	18	in rare cases , poor visibility , the crew will provide instructions to passengers turn off their devices during boarding .
12	19	in addition , according to the recommendations of the group , the more severe the device must be placed under seats or in the upper storage отсеках__otsekakh during takeoff and landing .


13	1	obama abandons his words on healthcare
13	2	in the storm of criticism , president obama went yesterday gave up about their often повторяемого__povtoryaemogo , unequivocal pledge that “ if you like your health insurance plan , you can keep it . ”
13	3	seeing that hundreds of thousands of people receive notice of termination of service from their providers in recent days , republicans savaged the president for what he does is misleading the american public .
13	4	obama yesterday several public подправил__podpravil his initial promise .
13	5	“ the majority of people who have health insurance that works , they can keep it , ” he said in his speech in boston .
13	6	touching on what he called “ the animation in the news ” about the termination of service , obama called for americans receiving these notices to seek other options on the market .
13	7	most people will be able to get the best , comprehensive health insurance plans for the same price or even cheaper than had been forecast .
13	8	“ you get more favorable terms , ” he said .
13	9	the administration said that no one should be surprised that the 5 % of the population who purchase insurance on their own may be forced to switch plans because their coverage does not meet the new standards required under the affordable care act .
13	10	“ let me say directly to these americans : you deserve better , ” sebelius said in testimony before the house of representatives committee on energy and commerce in washington .
13	11	sebelius , who oversees the implementation of the law on available medical care , said that the launch pad интернет-продаж__internet-prodazh goes “ appallingly bad ” since october .
13	12	“ i was upset and рассержена__rasserzhena like everything , ” she said .
13	13	“ i really want to regain your trust . ”
13	14	sebelius раздраженная__razdrazhennaya gathered this phrase that caught the included microphone , sitting behind her assistant at the hearing yesterday in the house after heated debate with the member of the house of representatives , billy лонгом__longom , republican from missouri , about whether she is obliged to join the obama healthcare program .
13	15	after more than three hours of hearings long again strongly asked sebelius to say why the “ architect ” of the affordable care act do not voluntarily renounced the government sponsored insurance plan for purchase through healthcare.gov , which she now imposes on millions of americans .


14	1	dmitry medvedev : greenpeace case would be heard fairly
14	2	russian prime minister dmitry medvedev on friday reported that the greenpeace activists will be reviewed in strict accordance with russian law .
14	3	france can no doubt that the case will be conducted in compliance with the law , we hear all the concerns .
14	4	“ we can guarantee adherence to laws , " dmitry medvedev said at a meeting with the prime minister of france жан-марком__zhan-markom hérault .
14	5	among the detained activists greenpeace is a citizen of france .
14	6	pierre пизаню__pizanyu , like other activists charged with hooliganism .
14	7	“ i asked , can we expect a humanitarian gesture towards the detainee citizen " - ria novosti quotes mr. hérault .
14	8	“ our country cannot sustain activity which may cause damage to the environment , no one has the right to violate laws " , - said dmitry medvedev in turn .
14	9	according to him , the activity of any structures that are trying to influence the technologically sophisticated and insecure processes , including energy production , is dangerous .
14	10	he stressed that these objects as " " powder keg , and recalled what happened in the gulf of mexico , reports ria novosti .


15	1	girlfriend seeds варламова__varlamova stated that hockey player suffers from alcoholism
15	2	girlfriend хоккеиста__khokkeista seeds варламова__varlamova eugenia вавринюк__vavrinyuk stated that he suffers from the alcoholism , reports russian news service .
15	3	“ he has no idea about how to stop drinking , " said , in particular , the woman .
15	4	we remind that вавринюк__vavrinyuk sued for beating the russia national team goalkeeper point-blank seeds varlamov , who took which is also a member of the colorado " " .
15	5	according to her , the hockey player оттаскал__ottaskal her by the hair and beat up - after the attack she had damaged the arms , chest , abdomen and neck .
15	6	varlamov himself came with повинной__povinnoy in denver police and confessed in the beating , describing in detail what happened .
15	7	he was arrested , but later released on bail of $ 5,000 .
15	8	the court did not restrict movements of an athlete in the country , but blocked the approach вавринюк__vavrinyuk .
15	9	he was also threatened with imprisonment for a term of up to six years for domestic violence .


16	1	blizzard released free of charge 19-year-old platform game
16	2	blizzard studio released for free on their pc platform game 1994 blackthorne .
16	3	on it informs wow insider .
16	4	according to his data , the game became available in the battle.net in the classic blizzard games .
16	5	but some gamers note that you currently it can only those users whose accounts belong to the american part of the service .
16	6	for russian users of the game while also unavailable .
16	7	according to media reports , the version that blizzard is now released on pc , looks no different from the original version of the game .
16	8	soundtrack to blackthorne also remained unchanged .
16	9	enjoy blackthorne that blizzard released 19 years ago , originally appeared on the snes .
16	10	his events on the planet разворачивались__razvorachivalis tuul river , whose occupants were divided into dark and light of the kingdom .
16	11	once dark ruler сарлак__sarlak decided to kill king celebrates влароса__vlarosa and become sole ruler of the planet .
16	12	the main hero of the game is the son of влароса__vlarosa kyle , who saved from death by sending to earth .
16	13	twenty years later , he returned to the tuul river to confront сарлака__sarlaka henchmen and protect them from the planet .
16	14	the original blackthorne became the first game , which the studio released after its renaming at blizzard entertainment .
16	15	prior to that , she was called silicon &amp; synapse .
16	16	the publisher was blackthorne company interplay .


17	1	coulson has resorted to hacking the phone to check the confidential messages
17	2	the former editor of the news of the world andy coulson allegedly used the “ phone hacking , surveillance and confrontation ” when trying to confirm false information about the novel , charles clarke , who was at that time the post of minister of internal affairs .
17	3	royal court prosecutor , lawyer andrew эдис__edis told the old bailey that in may 2005 , the newspaper news of the world received false news that clark meets with his attractive “ special ” советницей__sovetnitsey ханной__khannoy полби__polbi .
17	4	the newspaper requested the private investigator to hack voicemail гленну__glennu мулкейру__mulkeyru полби__polbi and подстерегала__podsteregala at her home to interview , but coulson also called her and left voice messages , the court heard .
17	5	“ the prosecution maintains that mr. coulson , who is now the editor of the notw , he is not such a person who will stand beside somebody ’ house , hoping to find someone , he caught a man who loves history suggest to people to see what they say , ” said mr. эдис__edis .
17	6	he said that the newspaper news of the world had used three methods of investigation stories : the hacking of phones , surveillance and confrontation .
17	7	the editor personally implicated in the third .
17	8	obviously , he knows about the second , about watching , he simply must .
17	9	what about the first ?
17	10	whether he knew about hack phones ?
17	11	he says no , we say : “ oh , yes ! ”
17	12	rumors about the novel clark first attracted the attention of the edition of the news of the world when the source , sexually interested in ms. полби__polbi , said : “ do not waste time , it with charles . ”
17	13	cassette with voice messages obtained from her phone at least three times , was removed from the house мулкейра__mulkeyra in august 2006 .
17	14	investigators also found on the computer records of a private detective , in which miss полби__polbi and her sister referred as “ projects ” .
17	15	during the period when it was under observation , grandmother and grandfather of ms. полби__polbi received anonymous calls with requests to provide information about her , said mr эдис__edis .
17	16	at that time , former chief reporter neville тёрлбек__tyorlbek and former reporter james уэзерап__uezerap controlled the monitoring eye of ms. полби__polbi .
17	17	leaving her voice message on 18 june 2005 , coulson said : “ i have the history that we plan to publish tomorrow and which i would like to discuss with charles . ”
17	18	mr эдис__edis said that participation in this коулсона__koulsona history occurred on the same scenario as with other influential people , for example with the former minister of internal affairs david бланкеттом__blankettom .
17	19	the jury heard on thursday that coulson has entered into a confrontation with mr бланкеттом__blankettom over the affair with a married woman while he himself met with соответчицей__sootvetchitsey ребеккой__rebekkoy brooks , who was married at the time .
17	20	coulson and brooks have denied membership in a conspiracy with others to hack phones between october 3 , 2000 and august 9 , 2006 .
17	21	мулкейр__mulkeyr , тёрлбек__tyorlbek and уэзерап__uezerap confessed to hack phones .


18	1	in the ministry of internal affairs of the bases no grouping " fraternal circle " , to which the u.s. причислили__prichislili next stop
18	2	in the databases of the russian security services group " fraternal circle " to which washington has rated singer gregory next stop , do not exist .
18	3	as interfax noted in the law enforcement agencies of the russian federation , after reports appeared in the media about the case by the u.s. treasury in the next stop checklists on suspicion of belonging to the eurasian criminal синдикату__sindikatu " fraternal circle " were checked all databases , but the group had been identified .
18	4	the dissemination of this information helps to maintain the myth of the so-called russian mafia , which allegedly operates abroad , believe in security structures .
18	5	“ even in the very title - ' fraternal ' circle , there is an element of mystery , a hint of a secret lodge .
18	6	“ all this is very similar to пиар-акцию__piar-aktsiyu " , is the interlocutor of agency has told .
18	7	the us treasury announced on october 31 , i sign to their checklists on suspicion of belonging to the eurasian criminal синдикату__sindikatu " fraternal circle " arthur бадаляна__badalyana , gregory лепсверидзе__lepsveridze , vadim лялина__lyalina , sergey moskalenko , yakov рыбальского__rybalskogo and igor шлыкова__shlykova .
18	8	the persons listed in this list , suspected of links with some vladislav леонтьевым__leontevym and гафуром__gafurom rakhimov , who are prominent members of criminal groups and are in the u.s. sanctions lists since february 2012 .
18	9	according to u.s. authorities , grigory leps " serves as a courier to deliver money on behalf of vladislav leontief " .
18	10	at the next stop продюсерском__prodyuserskom gregory declined to comment on the us charges against the singer , calling them " " delusions .
18	11	in 2011 , u.s. president barack obama took the syndicate " fraternal circle " among " substantial transnational organized criminal groups and " " asked the ministry of finance and undermine their " воспрещать__vospreshchat global criminal operations .
18	12	entry to the man in black lists of american finance ministry entails the blocking of his assets in the u.s. and a ban on business contacts with him persons residing in the states .


19	1	scientists shed light on how the tail of dog related to her mood .
19	2	earlier research has shown that happy dogs виляют__vilyayut tail in the right side ( from the point of view of a dog ) , while dogs alarmed помахивают__pomakhivayut tail mainly in the left side .
19	3	but now , scientists say that other members of the family dog may notice these subtle differences in вилянии__vilyanii tail and react to them .
19	4	professor giorgio валлортигара__vallortigara , нейробиолог__neyrobiolog from трентского__trentskogo university , says : “ it is well known that people have left and right side of the brain differently are involved in shaping the stimulators , which are positive or negative emotions . ”
19	5	here we have tried to look at this and many other species .
19	6	he added that just like humans , dogs have the right side of the brain controls the left side of the body , and vice versa , and the two hemispheres play different roles in emotions .
19	7	to learn more about how dogs react to various повиливания__povilivaniya tails of other dogs , the researchers watched the animals when they watched films about other dogs .
19	8	they measured the frequency of heartbeat animals and analyzed their behavior .
19	9	perhaps soon we will understand why their tails sometimes heading in one direction , and sometimes — in another
19	10	professor валлортигара__vallortigara said : “ we showed videos of dogs with dogs — either натуралистические__naturalisticheskie version or silhouette , to get rid of any of the other distorting factors , and we could manipulate the tail movement and direct more tail left or right . ”
19	11	when the animals have seen that nothing in the rest of the tail expressing the dog moved to the right ( from the point of view of виляющей__vilyayushchey tail dogs ) , they were totally relaxed .
19	12	but when they noticed that the tail was left mainly ( again from the point of view of виляющей__vilyayushchey tail dogs ) , their heartbeat учащалось__uchashchalos and they looked alarmed .
19	13	professor валлортигара__vallortigara said that he does not think that dogs deliberately communicated with each other using these movements .
19	14	in fact , he believes that the dogs have learned from their experience , about what movements they should worry about , and what is not .
19	15	he says : “ if there are several meetings with other dogs and often виляние__vilyanie their tail to one side is associated with more friendly behavior , while the right side is less friendly behavior , then the dog reacts on the basis of that experience . ”
19	16	the researchers say that these results may give owners , vet and дрессировщикам__dressirovshchikam deeper understanding of emotions of the animal .
19	17	an expert in the field of behavior of dogs , john bradshaw , a visiting researcher in the school of veterinary бристольского__bristolskogo university , said it was not the first study to test whether a value for dogs left and right side .
19	18	last year a group of scientists from the university of lincoln found that dogs turn the head to the left , if they look at an aggressive dog , and right , if they look at довольную__dovolnuyu dog .
19	19	and in other scientific work at the university of victoria in canada , he reported : “ dogs often approached собаке-роботу__sobake-robotu when its tail виляние__vilyanie направлялось__napravlyalos left , not right , rather than become alarmed — the opposite of behavior towards the italian study . ”
19	20	he said that the differences could be due to the fact that dogs in various studies are not entirely susceptible animals in films or собак-роботов__sobak-robotov as dogs .
19	21	it could be useful to study how dogs react to these dogs , he explained .
19	22	“ while on various mammals there is enough evidence that the two hemispheres of the brain are used for various purposes , many details are yet to be specified , and dogs are no exception , ” he said .
19	23	however , given the ease with which it can be registered their behavior , perhaps , soon we will understand why their tails sometimes heading in one direction , and sometimes — in another .


20	1	is the elite of europe to conduct business with england ?
20	2	business for britain campaign was launched in april , with the obligation to collect the representatives of business and determine what changes the creators of wealth and jobs in the uk want to see in relations with the eu .
20	3	to this end , we ordered the biggest and most complete survey of british business leaders , asking them to express their thoughts about the uk business and the eu .
20	4	the company yougov interviewed more than 1,000 business leaders , representing a broad slice of business in the uk on the size , sector and region .
20	5	the findings of the survey will be a surprise to many .
20	6	we have found that the vast majority of companies are now looking for opportunities for exports outside europe , paying special attention to the countries which are modernizing and growing , while eu countries are stagnant .
20	7	they want a government priority отдавало__otdavalo new trade relations with countries such as china , india and brazil , not has spent time on a long and difficult process complicated reform of the eu institutions .
20	8	when they were asked about their opinions on specific political issues , from antitrust regulation to laws on products , most business leaders believed that control these key areas of competence should be reclaimable вестминстеру__vestminsteru .
20	9	there was a general dissatisfaction with the single market , and business representatives have stated that the costs of regulation from brussels now outweigh the benefits from being in a commercial zone of europe — have agreed with this even 40 percent of large enterprises , as traditionally minded проевропейски__proevropeyski of all companies .
20	10	the last and most indicative — our survey of business leaders found that a clear majority wants britain to change their course on contract and on relations with the eu , based on trade , not politics .
20	11	this result , which was among the enterprises of all sizes and largest бизнес-групп__biznes-grupp , shows that business insists on “ meaningful change ” that would bring powers back to britain .
20	12	the stakes are high — the changes in the treaty and more favorable conditions for the uk will provide 16-процентный__16-protsentnyy shift in voting for it to stay in the eu .
20	13	the prime minister should not be any doubt : this poll shows that british business supports his plan to revise the terms of british membership in the eu .
20	14	it also shows that the business expects the review will lead to a major shift in the balance of power back to the uk .
20	15	the best conditions for british business and will become increasingly necessary as the eurozone is on a path of closer economic and financial integration .
20	16	priority should be given to jobs and growth in the uk and , as shown by the results of our survey for business this means greater focus on trade and fundamental changes in the standards of brussels .


21	1	the politician in turkey announced a hunger strike against a wall on the border with syria
21	2	in mid-october , the authorities began construction of the separation wall in the area of the town of nusaybin in south-eastern turkey .
21	3	local residents and representatives of the bdp supported by the party spoke out sharply against the construction .
21	4	the mayor is on the border with syria the turkish city of nusaybin 'isha гекхан__gekkhan announced a hunger strike , protesting against the construction of the separation wall on the border турецко-сирийской__turetsko-siriyskoy , reported ria novosti , the press service of the peace and democracy party ( bdp ) on friday .
21	5	police repeatedly operations to break up protest demonstrations .
21	6	the foreign minister of turkey муаммер__muammer guler initially denied the fact of construction , then stated that the wall is being built to ensure border security .
21	7	mayor " нусайбина__nusaybina 'isha гекхан__gekkhan , a member of the bdp , has announced a hunger strike , thus turning their protest against the construction of a wall in the deadly struggle ” , - said the press service of the party .
21	8	the mayor says construction of the wall is intended to isolate the kurdish population of the two countries from each other , the kurds crossed the border freely for half a century .
21	9	“ this is the inhuman situation with which the kurds will never agree , " quote 'isha гекхан__gekkhan party representatives .
21	10	according to the spokesman , 7 november at нусайбине__nusaybine is expected to hold a rally against the construction of the separation wall .


22	1	this morning in the area of the driver of the car peugeot саратском__saratskom " " left on a counter strip on 115 km of motorway одесса-рени__odessa-reni , and faced the bus , in which there were six people .
22	2	on it informs the press-service of the management of гсчс__gschs in odessa region .
22	3	as a result of the incident the driver of the car was 31-year-old " peugeot " .
22	4	suffered 55-летняя__55-letnyaya passenger and 44 years old the bus driver , whom зажало__zazhalo leg .
22	5	doctors gave woman first aid on the spot , from the hospital she refused .
22	6	also , emergency personnel examined all the other passengers .
22	7	rescuers using a crane lifted the bus and released the driver of the bus , whose foot was sandwiched in the door of the bus .


23	1	in siberia , should not be devoted vegan : тепличный__teplichnyy tomato 't replacing супчик__supchik
23	2	why vegetarianism is not suitable for life in siberia , выясняла__vyyasnyala correspondent for ria novosti .
23	3	people do not completely the products of animal origin should not live in siberia .
23	4	here they do not move the winter without loss for health , and no hothouse tomatoes do not compensate them , consider the interviewees on the eve of the day of vegan new siberian диетологи__dietologi and doctors .
23	5	drink butter литрами__litrami
23	6	strict vegetarianism when refuse to not only from meat and fish , but also from the milk , honey , eggs , it becomes a way of life .
23	7	but врачи-диетологи__vrachi-dietologi believe in novosibirsk in siberia and other cities to adhere to the same stringent standards in nutrition at least неполезно__nepolezno for health .
23	8	complete refusal of animal products harmful .
23	9	in animal proteins contain essential amino acids , which are very difficult to compensate for the plant .
23	10	you need to include in your diet even milk or eggs , " sure dietitian marina богай__bogay .
23	11	she cites as an example an indispensable fish contains omega-3 fatty acid .
23	12	most of them rich in vegetable oil is linseed .
23	13	to " потребить__potrebit it in the necessary quantities for a person , you should drink литрами__litrami ! ” says a nutritionist .
23	14	doctors are confident that residents of siberia need to pay special attention to the рациону__ratsionu in winter .
23	15	especially in this season of vegetarianism is questioned .
23	16	in terms of our realities imposed higher requirements for food .
23	17	to keep warm , you need the extra calories .
23	18	“ if people limit themselves to animal products , respectively , this calorie he недобирает__nedobiraet " , says expert .
23	19	with this agree врач-диетолог__vrach-dietolog olga późniak coat of arms .
23	20	she adds that imported fruits and vegetables is not a solution .
23	21	it is better to eat mostly foods , which is grown in the region of residence or where he was born .
23	22	the genetic code is configured to better digestion and for these products .
23	23	and during the winter , people are not totally ok , your puppy and hot супчика__supchika or even something посытнее__posytnee " - explains its position doctor .
23	24	according to her , that may have веганы__vegany , truly useful various grains , cereals , legumes , local vegetables , apples , remaining in the winter , frozen berries .
23	25	but this is clearly not enough for nutrition .
23	26	according to claudia врача-гастроэнтеролога__vracha-gastroenterologa арифулиной__arifulinoy , siberians have vitamins in organisms level sufficient only from mid august to mid september .
23	27	the full transition to vegetarianism in our harsh environmental conditions , when the temperature can change per day at 30 degrees and the snow lies in may , нецелесообразен__netselesoobrazen .
23	28	the body for life will need energy , and that , above all , fat , " medic concludes .
23	29	doctors say that veganism is particularly harmful to children and pregnant women .
23	30	children grow up , they need a construction material , including in the form of amino acids .
23	31	but by adhering to vegetarianism , we give them inferior .
23	32	pregnant also need high content of protein , vitamins and trace elements in the menu .
23	33	" веганки__veganki them недополучают__nedopoluchayut " - sure богай__bogay .
23	34	арифулина__arifulina says that an adult free to choose anything , play with the toys , which wants " .
23	35	he has already formed an organism , the skeleton and organs .
23	36	but the children still need to eat better .
23	37	if the parents are depriving him of trace elements and amino acids , choosing for him that he will be there , it is just a violation of the rights of the child .
23	38	" disadvantage those or other substances for the development of the brain , bones of tomorrow will not be , ” she says .
23	39	all interviewed специалисты-медики__spetsialisty-mediki agree about the low quality of the winter crop in greenhouses and imported fruit and vegetables .
23	40	what to bring and grown up in greenhouses , contains fewer required us to trace elements than ( grown up ) in the open ground .
23	41	" quality products then 't " says богай__bogay .
23	42	арифулина__arifulina also notes that imported and hothouse vegetables and fruits are far from ideal standards .
23	43	sometimes the desire of the manufacturers to build larger crop damages the quality .
23	44	't " apples are brown on the cut , cucumbers and quickly желтеют__zhelteyut плесневеют__plesneveyut , tasteless tomatoes and неароматные__nearomatnye " " gives examples medic , adding that they likely напичканы__napichkany excessive amounts of fertilizers .
23	45	and suppliers are not vitamins , and fiber .
23	46	with this disagrees завлабораторией__zavlaboratoriey siberian physical-technical institute of agricultural issues , candidate of agricultural sciences vera petruk .
23	47	she says that with the right approach , and observance of all standards and requirements of the cultivation of vegetables in greenhouses may stand .
23	48	if they try to push more with a square meter , then , of course , and to become more often and plants перекармливать__perekarmlivat mineral fertilisers .
23	49	for example , when too much nitrogen fertilizers , tomatoes are growing quickly , but they are large , watery and несладкие__nesladkie " - she explains , adding that the issue of quality , in the first place , depends of conscience from the manufacturer .


24	1	russia beyond cities struggle for polluting cars
24	2	attempts to solve the transport problems of large cities were observed in most cities around the world since the second half of the 20th century .
24	3	as a rule , it was either about their re-invent and expanding highways , or about attempts to reduce the demand for road trips , the number of cars and the time of their use .
24	4	widely known example of singapore where introduced strict quota increase in the number of private vehicles , and the right of their purchase is bought at auctions .
24	5	his price may exceed two to three times the price of the car .
24	6	european cities , including london , have introduced a fee for entry into the center of the city .
24	7	in germany , for example , in hamburg and stuttgart , introducing the so-called green zone , where entry is allowed only cars with certain экоклассом__ekoklassom using a fuel of high quality ( including biofuels or electric cars ) .
24	8	beijing environmental protection agency , for example , approved in 2012 " five-year plan of clean air " worth about 250 billion yuan ( about $ 40 billion ) .
24	9	as he told kommersant the director for control vehicle pollution of beijing municipal environmental protection bureau whether куншенг__kunsheng , the main objective of the plan is the reduction of major air pollutants by 20-35 % by 2017 , an increase in the number of private cars to a level not exceeding 6 million ( 5.2 million now ) , as well as an increase of no more than 5 % of fuel per one vehicle .
24	10	according to the agency , now motor vehicles in beijing responsible for 22.5 % of the total air pollution .
24	11	among the key measures of the program is the restriction of the use of road transport , as well as the imposition of additional taxes for car owners .
24	12	among other things , the city measures " green five-year plan " include accelerated compared with the rest of the country transition to fuel european standards , the introduction of the local system экостандартов__ekostandartov and labelling of cars and fuel restrictions on entry of cars in the central part of the city , a ban on the use of outdated vehicles ( besides creating a financial incentive programs to replace old vehicles to hybrid or electric cars ) , the development of electric vehicle ( including public and official ) , the development of public transport ( including high-speed ) .
24	13	among beijing automotive innovation also applies to ban all private cars on movement within the fifth transport ring ( just six ) in the capital of them one day a week ( the relevant information is contained in the sign номерном__nomernom vehicle ) , as well as the issue of registration plates for vehicles on the basis of lottery ( for example , in 2011 , the first year of the lottery , the total number of permits for registration of private cars in beijing was only a third of the number of 2010 ) .
24	14	according to the state programme " environmental protection for the years 2012-2020 " , the number of towns with high and very high air pollution must be reduced to 128 ( in 2012 , there were 138 ) .
24	15	according to the ministry of environment in 2011 on " mobile sources " fell 41 % of all emissions of pollutants in the atmosphere of the city .
24	16	in moscow , for example , emissions from cars in the ten times larger than industrial , and in st. petersburg - nine times .
24	17	in the russian federation until only start thinking about the possibilities of restricted regulation of cars on the streets of cities .
24	18	the director of the institute of economy of transport and the transport policy of the hse , mikhail блинкин__blinkin believes that administrative and fiscal measures aimed at suppressing demand for car travel is obviously unpopular , they can be taken only by assuming their complete versatility .
24	19	in the case of moscow is a unique problem with the structure of its fleet , where there are two cluster weakly sensitive to any regulatory impacts - service and personal cars , as well as vehicles " preferred " users , the total number of which is not less than 200 thousand . ( about 5 % of the total fleet of moscow ) .
24	20	the other day from урбанисты__urbanisty эком__ekom center in st. petersburg , prepared the study , which analyzed the balance between urban areas and residential development covering road surface and the number of vehicles .
24	21	the key findings of researchers : city centre roads with two times less required , but most motorists living in the center , do not use cars every day , leaving them for long periods of time on car parks or simply on the streets .
24	22	as a result , it is proposed to build 't parking and rental store , not to expand , and reduce road a part ( in order to the streets became more friendly for pedestrians ) , as well as limit the use and placing personal transport within the conservation area of historic centre ( common ground around 3212 hectares covering a number of central areas of the city ) .


25	1	to lead подорожанию__podorozhaniyu fuel tax maneuver , which calls for increasing the tax on mineral extraction tax ( oil ) simultaneously with a decline in export duties and excise increases .
25	2	according to experts , these measures could bring in additional budget 619,3 bln rubles .


26	1	the trip on the dirt , the rivers and the jungle to provide free medical care
26	2	dr. georges бвелле__bvelle provides free medical care in rural areas in cameroon
26	3	бвелле__bvelle and his team spend nearly every weekend , taking hundreds of patients
26	4	in this country западно-африканской__zapadno-afrikanskoy doctors , not so much — just one in 5,000 people
26	5	cast your vote here , or through your mobile device
26	6	dr. georges бвелле__bvelle — one of the top 10 cnn heroes of 2013 .
26	7	you can vote for him or for any of the other top 10 cnn heroes , so he became a hero of the year .
26	8	this man receives $ 250,000 to continue his remarkable work .
26	9	for 21 years , georges бвелле__bvelle saw his father came back to life and again sink into unconsciousness , wandering across hospitals , which were not properly equipped to help him .
26	10	джамеф__dzhamef бвелле__bvelle was injured in a car crash in 1981 near yaoundé , the capital of cameroon .
26	11	at first he had only a broken hand but the contagion spread to the brain and caused гематому__gematomu , which resembled a about himself to the end of his life .
26	12	“ in cameroon had no neurosurgeons , ” said georges бвелле__bvelle .
26	13	if we had the money , we would have flown him from cameroon .
26	14	instead , бвелле__bvelle years accompanied his father in overcrowded clinics and hospitals receiving any treatment that they could get .
26	15	“ it is not easy , ” said бвелле__bvelle .
26	16	— you can withdraw from the house at 5 a.m. to run back to the hospital to be first , but you are not the first .
26	17	patients very much .
26	18	some may die because they have to wait .
26	19	the situation is not much changed since the father бвелле__bvelle died in 2002 .
26	20	according to the world health organization , in cameroon , only one doctor for 5,000 people .
26	21	by comparison , the ratio in the united states — one doctor at 413 people .
26	22	and even if камерунцы__kameruntsy could have gone to a doctor , many of them it could not afford .
26	23	two out of five people in this country live below the poverty line , and nearly three quarters of health expenditures in it are private .
26	24	“ their only problem is poverty , ” said бвелле__bvelle .
26	25	— and because of the poverty they cannot enjoy their lives . ”
26	26	seeing the suffering of his father and so many of his compatriots , бвелле__bvelle became determined to do something with this .
26	27	last year , dr georges бвелле__bvelle and his team of volunteers spent 700 free operations .
26	28	he became a doctor and has vascular surgeon at the central hospital in yaoundé .
26	29	he also founded the non-profit organization ascovime , which organizes trips to the countryside on weekends to provide free medical care .
26	30	since 2008 , he and his band of volunteers helped nearly 32,000 people .
26	31	almost every friday , he and another 30 people набиваются__nabivayutsya in vans , which chain to roofs medical supplies and travel over rough terrain to visit villages need help .
26	32	not always brings them luck .
26	33	more than once they had to push vehicles through rivers and mud .
26	34	but when they arrive , they are welcomed as the true heroes : this holiday with songs and dances and the best rooms which can only suggest local residents .
26	35	free medical care in these villages really is a cause for celebration , and бвелле__bvelle with his broad smile and infinite energy is more than happy to join in the fun .
26	36	the next morning the team starts to take hundreds of patients .
26	37	“ we have 500 people on each trip , ” said бвелле__bvelle .
26	38	they come from the whole vicinity within a radius of 60 kilometers from the village , and they come on foot .
26	39	each of these clinics weekend provides a variety of medical services .
26	40	many people get treatment for malaria , tuberculosis , malnutrition , disease , parasites and sexually transmitted diseases .
26	41	others may receive donated crutches points or free birth certificates - documents needed for schools that many poor families simply cannot afford .
26	42	in the evening , the brigade has a simple operation under a local anesthesia .
26	43	surgery is usually held in the building of the school , municipality or in the house ; after the procedure , patients come and go in послеоперационную__posleoperatsionnuyu area to make space for the next person .
26	44	using a generator to provide lighting operating and sanitization equipment бвелле__bvelle and its volunteers work until the early hours of sunday .
26	45	this determination непосильный__neposilnyy pace , but teams usually help to keep rural musicians .
26	46	“ they all night beat the drums , so we were awake and continued to work , ” said бвелле__bvelle .
26	47	on sunday , the brigade members sent back to town , tired , but proud of his work .
26	48	this group , consisting of камерунских__kamerunskikh foreign doctors and medical students , has 700 free operations last year , and they know that their aid could be of great value for those they help .
26	49	one man explained that they obtained free surgery for the hernia treatment will allow him to work again .
26	50	“ this will change the future for me and my family , ” the man said .
26	51	in addition to these clinical methods in the weekend and work in a hospital surgeon бвелле__bvelle also works nights in a private medical clinics around the yaoundé .
26	52	it is this second work , he said , provides 60 % of his funding a nonprofit organization ; the rest are covered by private donations .
26	53	“ i don ’ t even know when he sleeps , ” said cathy o 'мэлли__'melli , a second year medical student дрексельского__drekselskogo university in philadelphia , the volunteer group in бвелле__bvelle .
26	54	he has always either in the hospital or trying to earn money for the organization to continue with these campaigns .
26	55	for future doctors and nurses , such as about 'мэлли__'melli coming from the united states and europe to join бвелле__bvelle in implementing its objectives , it is an opportunity to practice , which they would never have got at home .
26	56	“ we have got to ассистировать__assistirovat on operations , where we helped remove the stains of blood or keep the tools for doctors бвелле__bvelle » , — said about 'мэлли__'melli .
26	57	being студентом-второкурсником__studentom-vtorokursnikom , you would never get this kind of opportunity in america .
26	58	студенты-волонтеры__studenty-volontery usually pay for their own travel to cameroon , often arriving with пожертвованными__pozhertvovannymi medicines .
26	59	but on arrival in yaounde them meals , transport and education pays бвелле__bvelle .
26	60	“ he is a hero , without a doubt , ” said about 'мэлли__'melli .
26	61	he gives his life to this organisation , and his desire to help the people of cameroon indefinitely .
26	62	for бвелле__bvelle almost constant work load is not an ordeal .
26	63	helping others to live a happy life , to fulfil this promise to his father — that is what brings him great joy .
26	64	“ i am so happy when i do this job , ” said бвелле__bvelle .
26	65	“ and i think about my father .
26	66	i hope he sees that i do .
26	67	i do it to make people laugh , to reduce their pain .
26	68	go to the site and see ascovime than you can help .


27	1	for the russian mafia in the united states finally take hold a new name - " fraternal circle "
27	2	this week , the black list " " russian mafia in america by new names and four companies .
27	3	the us treasury has imposed in " fraternal circle " three representatives from russia , uzbekistan and two israeli citizens .
27	4	one of the russians , was singer grigori leps , whom the u.s. suspected of transporting money to members of the group .
27	5	in all , the united states in the black list of 22 people linked to " братскому__bratskomu circle " and six organizations affiliated with him .
27	6	nevertheless , many experts have expressed doubt that such an organization exists .
27	7	" statement ' fraternal circle ' more like an attempt to unite the disparate criminal gangs , " earlier said an expert on organized crime and professor at new york university mark galeotti .
27	8	in his opinion , " fraternal circle " reflects popular perception " russian mafia " .
27	9	“ i had seen anyone in russian law enforcement agencies or anywhere else who would have confirmed the existence of such criminal organizations , " quotes mr galeotti american center for the study of corruption and organized crime .
27	10	with mr. galeotti agrees and professor at george mason university liz shelley .
27	11	“ if they act together , then it is more like a criminal network , but no organization , " brings her words of the center for the study of corruption and organized crime .
27	12	in the middle of last year , mark galeotti suggested that " fraternal circle " unites in more close russian thief in law of aslan усояна__usoyana , known as ded hasan .
27	13	the criminal authority was assassinated in january of this year .
27	14	so , activities and лаши__lashi шушанашвили__shushanashvili zacharias калашова__kalashova , пополнивших__popolnivshikh list in 2012 , was closely connected to grandpa hassan , and another participant list , temuri mirzoyev , celebrated grandfather declare hasan nephew .
27	15	nevertheless , mr galeotti notes that some personality and have no relationship to усояну__usoyanu .
27	16	in his opinion , all of them feature more common financial and criminal interests , such as the delivery of drugs from afghanistan .
27	17	meanwhile , the scandal surrounding the inclusion in the circle of fraternal " " gregory next stop - the beloved singer of russian president vladimir putin - attracted the attention of the kremlin .
27	18	naturally , we hope that we get from our american коллег-партнеров__kolleg-partnerov more detailed information , in connection with which the decision was made , why it made in such lists , said a spokesman for the head of state dmitry peskov .
27	19	in any case , he ( leps ) is a citizen of the russian federation .
27	20	as well as the interests of all citizens of the russian federation , its interests would be protected .


28	1	tony blair said that he would take advantage of the chance to return as prime minister of great britain , but concedes that it is unlikely to return .
28	2	in an interview on the eve of the evening on the fifth anniversary of his departure from office , the 59-year-old politician outlined their views on various aspects of domestic policy .
28	3	since his retirement in june 2007 after a decade as leader , blair has largely avoided discussing british politics , limiting most of his comments to foreign affairs and his role as ambassador четверке__chetverke peacekeepers in the middle east .
28	4	answering the question of whether he would have returned to the post of prime minister , blair , according to the london evening standard , said : “ yes , of course , but this is unlikely to happen , so ... ”


29	1	milan coach massimiliano allegri " " expressed regret over the outcome of a draw in the match 10th round of the italian cup with lazio " " .
29	2	the expert also noted that failure at the start due to a series of injuries to leading players .
29	3	i am very sorry that we have not managed to win , leads tmw words allegri .
29	4	the team has played a match , creating three or four good opportunities .
29	5	in the first half we allowed nothing " lazio " .
29	6	in the second the romans had increased , but in general i can ’ t say that we lost concentration .
29	7	it was necessary to win .
29	8	last season we have fulfilled the task of getting into the champions league .
29	9	now we lag behind the schedule , but this is due to a series of injuries of key players .
29	10	rami and honda ?
29	11	this is a very good players with character .
29	12	however , our members and now is good .
29	13	look at kaka , who held a meeting at the highest level .


30	1	the british police presents assange extradition notice
30	2	british police today handed a notice about the extradition of wikileaks founder julian assange who took refuge in ecuador ’ s embassy in london and asked for asylum .
30	3	in скотланд-ярде__skotland-yarde said they handed 40-летнему__40-letnemu австралийцу__avstraliytsu “ official requirement to surrender ” with the requirement to report to the police station , adding that in the case of this requirement , he will then be subject to arrest .
30	4	assange faces extradition to sweden on charges of sexual crimes after he exhausted his opportunities in accordance with british law , when the supreme court rejected his appeal against extradition earlier this month .
30	5	fearing that stockholm will transfer its united states , june 19 , he took refuge in the ecuador embassy in london asking for this south american country of asylum .
30	6	“ scotland yard handed 40-летнему__40-letnemu man official requirement to surrender , which obliges him to come to the police station at date and time of our choosing , ” a spokesman for .
30	7	he continues to violate the terms of his release on bail .
30	8	the embassy refused to comment on the notice of the police .
30	9	assange fears he will be extradited from sweden to the us , to charge him of possible charges of espionage after the publication of more than 250,000 u.s. diplomatic депеш__depesh on stands against secrecy website wikileaks .


31	1	now the novel сенчин__senchin is located in paris at the presentation of his novel " елтышевы__eltyshevy " , the other on the french language .
31	2	we shall remind , that his novel was a finalist four prizes : " yasnaya polyana " " russian booker prize " " national bestseller " and " big book " .
31	3	and last year , a writer for this book was awarded the prize of the government of the russian federation in the field of culture .
31	4	roman сенчин__senchin - clearly the leader in current generation thirty-year and no language prose writers .
31	5	virtually every publication of his hard , built on a modern material life stories and legends are heated debate among critics of the most different directions .
31	6	it is possible to assert , that collected together articles about the prose and journalism сенчина__senchina , reviews of his books and magazine publishing creates a curious and unexpected landscape of russian literature from the late 1990s until the beginning of 2010-х__2010-kh .
31	7	in discussions about the works of “ one of the most controversial modern writers " , according to critic sergey чупринина__chuprinina , it mostly is about what its participants understand the word " " literature , see what the present and future not only of our literature but also of life .
31	8	unfortunately , the books are not allowed to include most of the articles and reviews of the regional media and blogosphere .
31	9	analytical articles and reviews are , as a rule , in cutting sections of paragraphs in " ... "


32	1	сноудена__snoudena can interrogate in russia
32	2	american intelligence экс-сотрудник__eks-sotrudnik edward snowden , most likely , will not have to travel outside russia to testify in cases of listening action telephone conversations of german chancellor angela merkel .
32	3	according to interfax on friday , a source familiar with the situation , an american might answer questions from representatives of germany in writing or other " in russia .
32	4	the departure of edward сноудена__snoudena outside russia virtually excluded .
32	5	“ in this case , he will lose the status of a refugee and could be extradited to the united states washington странами__stranami " союзницами__soyuznitsami " , is the interlocutor of agency said .
32	6	“ however , in principle , the prosecutor general of the federal republic of germany in russia could send their representatives or to submit written questions сноудену__snoudenu " , the source said , adding that this question should be been elaborated on the international level .
32	7	earlier , a member of the german bundestag ханс-кристиан__khans-kristian штребеле__shtrebele reported that edward snowden was ready to testify in the trial about listening action by american spy agencies of negotiation the chancellor of germany .
32	8	snowden was ready to testify to german law enforcement agencies either in moscow , or in the territory of germany .
32	9	the cia экс-сотрудник__eks-sotrudnik made clear that he knows a lot .
32	10	despite the fact that the nsa , the us blocked his travel , snowden was ready to come to germany .
32	11	but for this we have to clearly define the conditions of his arrival , " said штребеле__shtrebele tv channel euronews .
32	12	lawyer anatoly сноудена__snoudena кучерена__kucherena , commenting on the statement of the source of interfax , said his client would cooperate with german investigators , but when and how - will decide itself .
32	13	a us citizen edward snowden , who worked for the national security agency ( nsa ) , the us and the cia , fled to hong kong in may 2013 g . , then leaked information about secret u.s. intelligence operations on the internet surveillance .
32	14	snowden flew through moscow transit , but could not leave the airport because his passport nullified the us authorities , in absentia предъявившие__predyavivshie him serious accusations , and before the beginning of august remained in the transit zone of the sheremetyevo airport .
32	15	on 1 august snowden received a document granting him temporary asylum in russia for a year , and on the same day he left sheremetyevo .
32	16	yesterday , an american lawyer anatoly кучерена__kucherena said his client took a job at a major russian company " " .
32	17	about nsa surveillance for angela merkel , german media reported last week .
32	18	according to journalists , americans began to listen to the phone calls of chancellor back in 2002 .
32	19	a tracking allegedly was at the u.s. embassy in berlin .
32	20	the german authorities after the publication of these data indicated that the surveillance of merkel violates laws and sovereignty of germany .


33	1	racing series announced the release of land rover
33	2	inside are racing seats and seatbelts шеститочечные__shestitochechnye , as well as internal communication system .
33	3	in addition you can get upgraded brakes , a package of services providing access to the bowler who repair automobiles works , logistical support and storing the car between activities .
33	4	drew bauler , managing director of bowler motorsport , said : “ the rally participants traded in bowler , swap . ”
33	5	some of them are not experienced drivers and people seeking excitement , adventure and access to world-class events .
33	6	we are glad to offer such a path in partnership with land rover and msa and believe that this format offers a new way to try different disciplines rally in the uk and abroad , as well as to prepare participants to the harsh conditions and the realities of ралли-рейда__ralli-reyda .
33	7	with a great pleasure we developed car defender challenge — it will be really exciting championship .
33	8	in addition , defender challenge involves one day in february for training and testing , as well as the opportunity to take part in events in the desert in north africa and the middle east .


34	1	children must study the myths and legends as “ life models , ” the author says .
34	2	tales of the torah could show that “ brute force cannot defeat the subtle trick ” , and the legends of king arthur show how important it is to have a dream .
34	3	saying that many of the myths are “ too wild too скандальными__skandalnymi and in some cases too obscene for teaching in schools , ” кроссли-холланд__krossli-kholland stands for “ carefully selected ” suitable for the age of texts .
34	4	“ i think it is wonderful that in america the myths and folklore are already part of education , ” he said .
34	5	i have advocated the introduction of their training program in twenty years .
34	6	he added that the “ excessive ” морализаторство__moralizatorstvo authors and teachers from “ interest ” in children , and the basic ideas of “ сублимированы__sublimirovany ” in a fascinating history .
34	7	кроссли-холланд__krossli-kholland , who translated “ beowulf ” with the anglo-saxon language , and also wrote “ a collection of norwegian myths ” for publishers penguin and the british folk tales , ” said : “ you can of course be the intention , but you better keep them with him . ”
34	8	perhaps the biggest difference between adult author , writer for adults , and adults by the author , writer for children , is the need to feel some kind of hope .
34	9	not that everything should be simplified or lead to the end of the happy , but it is necessary to have an innate understanding of good and evil .
34	10	and it must be сублимировано__sublimirovano ; unfolded through the history and not clearly formulated .
34	11	the old principle : to show , not tell .


35	1	goldman sachs warned about the risks for the russian economy
35	2	goldman sachs warned of growing risks to the fragile driver of economic growth in russia , consumption .
35	3	this is primarily a crisis of arrears on unsecured consumer loans and mass layoffs of workers .
35	4	our main concern now is not that growth slowed , but rather , the structure of this growth .
35	5	lately , he is almost entirely due to consumption , which does not ease turnovers " , said goldman sachs chief economist for russia , representing clemens column yesterday quarterly report anywhere on the russian economy .
35	6	now the nominal wage growth in russia is about 10 % .
35	7	with inflation at 6 percent , he will be able to meet future consumer demand roughly at the current level , expect at goldman sachs .
35	8	but the profitability of russian companies is falling , however , most likely , they will improve the expenditure on staff .
35	9	today , we see a significant increase in the share of wages in gdp : if wages are rising by 10 per cent , while gdp is only 2 % , explained mr. column .
35	10	the company experienced a decline in profitability .
35	11	if it does not rise , it can lead to lay-offs and rise in unemployment .
35	12	not to raise the salaries of russian businesses cannot , said barclays capital chief economist for russia and cis vladimir пантюшин__pantyushin .
35	13	unemployment near historical lows , competition for workers is high .
35	14	to lure away from employees or keep the current employers to raise wages .
35	15	consumption in russia поддер__podder ­ живается__zhivaetsya and very rapid growth потребкредитования__potrebkreditovaniya .
35	16	according to mr. fields , because of the extremely high rates on consumer loans мультипликативного__multiplikativnogo effect on the economy of the country , this kind of lending does not .
35	17	the benefit to the economy from growing потребкредитования__potrebkreditovaniya we saw no , the money does not go to the economy , and return to the same banks in the form of interest payments , said economist .
35	18	but the problem in another - at goldman sachs expect growth of delay on unsecured credit .
35	19	they are mostly not rich who have nothing to offer as security .
35	20	interest rates on such loans are high .
35	21	as a result , they often do not return , ” said mr. column .
35	22	however the second threat to economic growth in russia - a possible crisis of arrears on unsecured credit .
35	23	the director of the hse institute banking vasily солодков__solodkov now sees signs of growing banking crisis .
35	24	'petit credit organizations without access to cheap resources , which have госбанков__gosbankov , were forced to raise funds for the population with high interest .
35	25	in response , госбанки__gosbanki went on the war-path and began to lower lending rates , says economist .
35	26	'petit credit organizations cannot give loans under the same interest , otherwise they will have negative interest margin .
35	27	if not abandon госбанки__gosbanki dumping , russia is in a full-fledged banking crisis , believes vasily солодков__solodkov .
35	28	revocation of the licences of several banks in recent weeks , the economist believes it a harbinger of collapse .
35	29	" themselves госбанки__gosbanki 't cope with such a situation : a system of deposit insurance was not originally designed for a systemic crisis , " warns head of the institute .
35	30	but consumption growth will slow and without the crisis of non-payments , believe in the prestigious - because of the refusal of indexing salaries for civil servants and the military , which in the current version of the draft budget .
35	31	partially hit consumption will be softened by the freeze tariffs of natural monopolies ( and , as a result , reduced inflation ) .
35	32	but only partly : if investments do not rise ( and the prerequisites for this are not yet - see the certificate ) , consumption growth still slows , confident of goldman sachs .
35	33	vladimir пантюшин__pantyushin from barclays capital until he sees the prerequisites for implementation of the pessimistic scenarios .
35	34	“ the main risk is still falling oil prices , he says .
35	35	in his estimation , the russian economy will shrink when the cost of oil below $ 90 per barrel .
35	36	at goldman sachs also noted that while the central bank cannot cut interest rates in the economy .
35	37	there is a paradoxical picture : inflation fell , and banks have been raising rates .
35	38	this may mean that they did not believe the central bank , объявившему__obyavivshemu transition to таргетированию__targetirovaniyu inflation " , said clemens column .
35	39	the policy of the central bank on market rates , affects not only affects the interbank lending rates .
35	40	" hopes for central bank it all collapse , " praised the clemens box .
35	41	the money received by the central bank auctions , banks are not lending to the economy , and to manage its liquidity
35	42	as soon as the reduced rate , just changing the exchange rate , it means that the funds are trying to go to speculation against the rouble .
35	43	“ sooner or later , the central bank will understand that this strategy is not working , ” said mr. column and reminded that let the rouble float in " " state plans by the end of 2015 .
35	44	but will either have to do this before , or pick up a key central bank rate ( 5.5 % ) , he says .
35	45	in his estimation , the ruble is artificially overvalued by 10 % .
35	46	ruble only one road is weakening , - the expert concludes .
35	47	but if the central bank заронит__zaronit in финансистах__finansistakh even the shadow of a doubt that the currency is not part of the policy to weaken the currency , it can bring down the ruble is much stronger .


36	1	snowden agreed to give testimony about merkel listening action
36	2	a member of the bundestag ганс-кристиан__gans-kristian штребеле__shtrebele met in moscow with edward сноуденом__snoudenom .
36	3	during the conversation , discussed whether snowden be interrogated as a witness on the case of генпрокуратурой__genprokuraturoy germany about possible listening action phone of german chancellor спецслцужбами__spetssltsuzhbami usa .
36	4	snowden has expressed its readiness to give the necessary indications .
36	5	the meeting could take place either in moscow , or in germany .
36	6	he made it clear , said ганс-кристиан__gans-kristian штребеле__shtrebele - that knows very much .
36	7	and despite the fact that the national security agency led by keith alexander blocked all his travel , snowden was ready to come to germany .
36	8	but first we will need to clearly define the conditions of his arrival .
36	9	meanwhile , u.s. lawmakers are beginning to take action in response to the scandal surrounding the u.s. spy programs .
36	10	the senate committee on intelligence approved a bill yesterday , portray the additional restrictions on the activities of the american intelligence agencies online .


37	1	faa : “ air passengers can now use the gadgets on planes ( but not to call from your mobile phone ) ”
37	2	авиапассажиры__aviapassazhiry will be able to use their electronic devices during the flight to read , work , play games , watch movies and listen to music , but not talking on mobile phones , according to long-awaited new guidelines , published on thursday , the federal aviation administration .
37	3	but passengers should not expect change to occur immediately .
37	4	how quickly such a change is implemented , will vary depending on the airline , said faa administrator michael huerta at a press conference .
37	5	faa to airlines will have to show how their planes meet the new guidelines and that they update their training manuals for members of the flight crew and the rules on the installation of devices to conform to the new guidelines .
37	6	faa said it has already received from some airlines plans to expand the use of portable electronic devices on planes .
37	7	delta and jetblue were among airlines , which have already submitted plans .
37	8	“ depending on the condition of the plan we could approve the increased use of electronic devices very soon , ” the faa stated .
37	9	passengers are currently required to turn off their smartphones , tablets and other devices as soon as the aircraft door closes .
37	10	they should not restart them until the plane reaches an altitude of 10,000 feet and the captain will not give “ welcome . ”
37	11	passengers should turn off their devices once again when the plane is going down for planting , and not to include them , while the plane is on the ground .
37	12	in accordance with the new guidelines , airlines , whose planes properly protected from electronic interference may allow passengers to use these devices during takeoff , landing and руления__ruleniya , faa said .
37	13	most new airliners and other planes modified so that passengers could use wi-fi at high altitudes , is expected to meet these criteria .
37	14	laura глейдинг__gleyding , president of the association of professional flight attendants , welcomed the change .
37	15	“ after the new policy will be implemented safely ( and we are going to work closely with the carrier to achieve this , it will be the win-win option , ” said глейдинг__gleyding .
37	16	we frankly are tired of feeling “ дежурными__dezhurnymi on school ” when it comes to this issue .
37	17	but the internet connection for web browsing , exchange of electronic letters , text messages or downloading data will still be prohibited at an altitude of less than 10,000 feet , the agency reported .
37	18	passengers will be asked to switch their smartphones , tablets and other devices in airplane mode .
37	19	thus , still no “ words with friends ” — intellectual gaming , in which the actor alec baldwin played on your smartphone in 2011 , when there was a notable case : the actor was filmed with the airline american airlines flight for refusing to turn off the device at a time when the aircraft was at the gate .
37	20	but heavier devices , such as laptops , still need to be laid in the luggage storage office because they can injure someone if they were flying around the cabin .
37	21	calls from the mobile phone in flight are still banned .
37	22	regulatory powers on telephone calls to the federal communications commission , not the faa .
37	23	faa may remove a ban on some electronic devices during takeoff and landing
37	24	last month mark розенкер__rozenker from the national council for transport safety , the national transport safety expert for cbs news , said that cell phones are still considered at risk .
37	25	“ cell phones — it really is an issue , not just because potentially it could create interference with navigational devices , but we know thanks to the fcc , that it could interfere with cell phone towers is when the plane is in the air , ” said розенкер__rozenker .
37	26	an faa advisory committee created to study this issue , recommended last month that the government allowed the more widespread use of personal electronic devices .
37	27	in recent years , the growing pressure on the faa with the aim of easing restrictions on their use .
37	28	critics , such as democrats senator from missouri claire маккаскил__makkaskil , argue that there is no legitimate reason for the prohibitions related to security .
37	29	the restrictions also becomes more difficult to secure , as the use of devices has become ubiquitous .
37	30	some studies show that up to a third of passengers forget or ignore instructions off its devices .
37	31	the faa to restrict passenger use of electronic devices in 1966 , in response to reports of помехах__pomekhakh for navigation and communications equipment , when passengers began to wear a fm-радиоприемники__fm-radiopriemniki — high-tech gadgets of the time .
37	32	new airplanes are far more dependent on electrical systems than previous generations of aircraft , but they also developed and approved faa as resistant to electronic interference .
37	33	the airline offered passengers use wifi at cruising altitude already for several years .
37	34	the aircraft , a modified for wi-fi-систем__wi-fi-sistem also more resistant to interference .
37	35	the vast majority of ships adapted for wider use of electronic devices , according to the new guidelines , huerta said .
37	36	today ’ s electronic devices typically emit radio much lower power than previous generation devices .
37	37	the device for reading electronic books , for example , emit only minimal signals at перелистывании__perelistyvanii pages .
37	38	but signals are becoming more powerful when the device download or send data .
37	39	among those who pushed for easing restrictions on the use of electronic devices of passengers , was the company amazon.com.
37	40	in 2011 the company representatives have downloaded a airliner their devices for reading electronic books for kindle and flew him to check for problems , but never found them .
37	41	faa advisory committee members expressed mixed feelings about whether the use of the devices presents any risk .
37	42	douglas kidd from the national association of passengers said he believes distractions from the real device , even if the risk is minimal .
37	43	other members of the committee said that there are only individual messages pilots , confirming that the devices might be creating interference for aviation systems , and most of these messages are very old .
37	44	nevertheless , the committee recommended that the faa require pilots allowed passengers to turn off devices during landings on the appliances in limited visibility .
37	45	a group of representatives from the tourism industry welcomed the changes , calling them are a step towards passengers who now use a variety of technological devices .
37	46	“ we are pleased that the faa recognizes that the comfort of passengers is not inconsistent with safety and protection , ” said roger dow , ceo of the u.s. travel association .


38	1	vilnius suspects moscow in an attempt to slander the lithuanian president
38	2	russia intends to implement information provocation against senior officials of lithuania and the countries of the eastern partnership is such a statement the agency bns done in department of defense of the republic ( дгб__dgb ) .
38	3	the information published on the portal delfi .
38	4	according to the report , in particular the moscow intends to " booked " lithuanian president grybauskaite далю__dalyu and publish fraudulent documents , allegedly found in russian госархиве__gosarkhive , which concern the facts from the biographies of the lithuanian leader .
38	5	according to the security services , the preparation of information attack leads analysis department of public management processes of the administration of the president of russia on межрегиональным__mezhregionalnym and cultural relations with foreign countries .
38	6	the structure is headed by evgeny умеренков__umerenkov 't times посещавший__poseshchavshiy lithuania and who participated in the congress of the lithuanian people ’ s party .
38	7	also a member of the operation is ostensibly an employee in the department . smirnov .
38	8	according to smirnov intelligence agency , under the guise of a scientific work until the end of 2012 regularly travelled to lithuania and member with local politicians , political scientists and media representatives .
38	9	now смирнову__smirnovu banned from entering the territory of the country .
38	10	on the eve of the lithuanian president grybauskaite has said about what it knows about the upcoming информатаке__informatake .
38	11	in her opinion , the main causes of a successful presidency of the council of the european union countries of lithuania and " desire for energy independence "
38	12	lithuanian leader previously has repeatedly criticized the actions of the russian authorities .
38	13	so , she stated that the kremlin to lithuania " " are insufficiently respectful .
38	14	in addition , grybauskaite accused the head of the russian federation vladimir putin in nominating to lithuania " " requirements alone .
38	15	recall that in september of rospotrebnadzor suspended imports of lithuanian " молочки__molochki " in russia .
38	16	it was reported that the products do not conform to norms санитарно-эпидемиологическим__sanitarno-epidemiologicheskim .
38	17	then the lithuanian leader said that if russia did not lift the ban , the government of the country must prepare an appeal to the wto .


39	1	the new vaccine антиникотиновая__antinikotinovaya may inhibit the process of smoking pleasure
39	2	scientists have developed антиникотиновую__antinikotinovuyu vaccine , which could deprive the pleasure of smoking cigarettes .
39	3	a single dose of the vaccine could protect mice against nicotine addiction for life .
39	4	further tests are needed before trials on humans , in that it will take a few years , but professor ronald crystal from уэйлл__ueyll cornell medical college in new york , said that the first results are encouraging .
39	5	“ we very much hope that this strategy of using vaccines can finally help the millions of smokers who tried to quit , испробовав__isprobovav all methods available in the market today , but find their nicotine dependence is strong enough to overcome it by using these modern means , ” said professor cornell .
39	6	the new vaccine contains a harmless virus that was designed to carry genetic information for the production of antibodies антиникотиновых__antinikotinovykh .
39	7	selectively virus infects liver cells , which then began to produce a steady stream of antibodies .
39	8	antibodies trace any nicotine molecules in the blood , нейтрализуя__neytralizuya them before they reach the brain , preventing getting a smoker никотинового__nikotinovogo strike .
39	9	in tests вакцинированные__vaktsinirovannye mouse , which later gave the nicotine , continued their normal activities .
39	10	and the mouse , which did not give the vaccine , ” “ relax our effort relying solely , and it is a sign that the nicotine reached out to them - the brain , researchers say .
39	11	these experiments described in the journal science translational medicine .
39	12	previous tobacco vaccine failed because they contained antibodies .
39	13	in order to maintain a high level of antibodies , injections needed to do so often that they were expensive and непрактичными__nepraktichnymi .
39	14	but the cost of a new vaccine is likely to be much lower because she makes liver cells in the factories of antibodies .
39	15	professor crystal said that if future human vaccine was completely safe , it would give the children before they have a desire to try a cigarette , preventing никотиновую__nikotinovuyu dependence .
39	16	but it is more likely that it will be used by smokers to quit .
39	17	“ they will know if they start smoking again , they will receive no pleasure from it due to the nicotine vaccine , and that can help them get rid of this habit , ” he said .
39	18	british scientists said the results were interesting , but cautioned that more research is needed .


40	1	предзимние__predzimnie troubles .
40	2	what to do in the garden before the frosts
40	3	in the autumn of fungicides better choose медьсодержащие__medsoderzhashchie drugs , for example 1 % satisfaction бордоскую__bordoskuyu mixture or drugs абига-пик__abiga-pik , оксихом__oksikhom , ордан__ordan etc .


41	1	frontier airlines will charge for hand luggage
41	2	frontier airlines plans to charge passengers up to $ 100 for what they bring hand luggage on board his flight .
41	3	frontier airlines plans to start charging up to $ 100 for hand luggage and $ 2 for coffee or газировку__gazirovku , though their announcement on wednesday has been that passengers can leave yourself the whole bank .
41	4	the new fee applies to hand luggage bags in the luggage , however отсеках__otsekakh small bags , placed under the seat remain free .
41	5	frontier said it will charge $ 25 if the fee is payable in advance , and $ 100 if travellers will pay only once at the gate .
41	6	a spokeswoman for frontier kate 'мэлли__'melli said that the fee to $ 100 to get passengers to take care of the payment in advance .
41	7	“ we do not want to charge for it , ” she said .
41	8	airlines have begun to charge for the first and second bag , сдаваемую__sdavaemuyu in baggage in 2008 .
41	9	passengers trying to avoid these fees , wave so much , how many will be able , in your carry-on luggage помещаемую__pomeshchaemuyu in the top slots because of what these отсеках__otsekakh often do not have enough space .
41	10	fees is one of the ways to make passengers less carry on board .
41	11	about 'мэлли__'melli said that this new fee is not really for the sake of making money .
41	12	the fact of the matter is that most loyal clients frontier say they find a place in the upper storage отсеках__otsekakh becomes all the more difficult .
41	13	passengers who bought tickets on the airline website , do not have to pay .
41	14	this means that one passenger in the queue at the frontier flight might be able to carry a bag for free , while the next customer in the queue can pay $ 100 for the same bag .
41	15	about 'мэлли__'melli said that changes to procedures on the website and the check-in desk frontier is intended to ensure that the passengers will know about the collection before they get to the exit of the gate .
41	16	a new frontier for hand baggage fee will not apply until the summer , though the date has yet to be set .
41	17	passengers often complain of fees for baggage and other fees , but airline adore them .
41	18	they argue that the baggage handling costs money , and passengers who need this service should pay for it .
41	19	many on wall street believe the addition of baggage fees sign that airlines collect enough money to cover the costs of air travel after several years of losses .
41	20	but most of them are not related to the fees for hand luggage .
41	21	spirit airlines inc. has introduced the first hand baggage fee for three years ago and another discounter allegiant air later followed her example .
41	22	the only other airline with this collection is hungarian wizz air , said airlines consultant jay sorensen , who closely tracks the extra fees .
41	23	in his assessment of the report from december 2011 , the charge for hand luggage spirit brings in $ 50 million a year .
41	24	sorensen , a former midwest airlines senior manager , recently flew on flight spirit , and he was wondering what he would find at the gate , where the passengers will face an unusual collection of spirit for hand luggage .
41	25	“ the process of planting was the smooth of those that i have seen in my career in the airlines , ” he said .
41	26	i expected to see the gnashing of teeth and the emergence of fights at the gate .
41	27	the plane was full , he said , “ and the landing passed quickly . ”
41	28	frontier also follows the spirit in respect of fees at $ 2 for coffee , tea , газировку__gazirovku or juice .
41	29	frontier said that passengers who get газировку__gazirovku or juice , can leave a whole jar and that долив__doliv coffee will be provided free of charge .
41	30	it will still be handing out free water .
41	31	us airways short time trying to charge for drinks in 2008 , but abandoned this in seven months , after passengers began to complain , and no other major airline not followed her example .
41	32	on the initiative of the frontier взиманию__vzimaniyu fee for hand luggage when passengers do not buy tickets directly from the airline , it is the latest measure to attract customers to its web site .
41	33	airlines pay онлайн-продавцам__onlayn-prodavtsam tickets , such as orbitz , from $ 10 to $ 25 for each ticket sold .
41	34	this gave all airlines an incentive to encourage passengers to buy tickets directly from them and not to contact the travel онлайн-агентство__onlayn-agentstvo .
41	35	but frontier all went further in this area .
41	36	in september , she started to give two times less often miles flying passenger customers who bought tickets through online travel agency .
41	37	on wednesday she cut премиальное__premialnoe number of miles up to 25 percent of the miles of travel .
41	38	so , the trip to 1,000 miles from the frontier , bought from online travel agency , would get 250 miles .
41	39	in addition , passengers can choose a seat in advance only if they buy tickets directly on the website of the frontier .
41	40	the frontier is the base of loyal customers in her hometown of denver , but its business is shrinking and becoming loss .
41	41	revenue fell 9 percent , and flight opportunities fell by nearly 13 per cent in the first quarter , according to financial results announced wednesday the parent company republic airways holdings inc .
41	42	republic is trying to rectify finance frontier in the sale of the airline .


42	1	putin has impunity for his friend assad
42	2	and now , news of the ocean , namely from syria , where , as we learned today , israel struck on missiles of russian production , which reportedly targeted ' hezbollah " .
42	3	today , syria has fulfilled an important condition is to destroy their chemical weapons production to 1 november .
42	4	this was done in the framework of the agreement brokered by russia and the united states which allows not to conduct a military operation to which they closely came this summer .
42	5	read more about weapons and about what all this means for the syrian president , tells our chief international correspondent richard engel .
42	6	washington has said that assad ’ s regime will be punished for it .
42	7	more than 1,400 civilians , including hundreds of children , died in august from poison gas .
42	8	and the punishment came .
42	9	but not in the form of u.s. bombing , but in the form of transaction , which made a friend of assad , vladimir putin .
42	10	syria abandon its chemical weapons by the middle of next year .
42	11	and today is an important milestone .
42	12	a group of international experts reported that syria knocked out announced factory химоружия__khimoruzhiya .
42	13	the more long term and an arduous task - the destruction of tons of chemical weapons and components to it .
42	14	as we understand , this is about a thousand tons .
42	15	washington previously said that assad ’ s days are numbered .
42	16	i think assad must go .
42	17	the question is not if this will happen , but when it happens .
42	18	he no longer легитимен__legitimen and must go .
42	19	but assad remains .
42	20	and feels more confident .
42	21	his forces are still using artillery , rockets and napalm .
42	22	his opponents are divided and poorly armed .
42	23	his people were forced to leave their homes , many go hungry .
42	24	some are forced to eat leaves and cats .
42	25	many believe that bashar al-assad has escaped punishment for mass murder .
42	26	the agreement on chemical weapons inspectors called the success of diplomacy , was awarded the nobel peace prize , and assad himself impressed person ready to cooperate .
42	27	today in washington , the u.s. ambassador in syria had to answer tough questions .
42	28	when a child dies from hunger , his mother is hardly easier from what he was not killed by chemical weapons .
42	29	assad still holds .
42	30	and changing weapons on power .


43	1	tomic performing its actions 240 hours for an extremist video in our
43	2	leninsky district court of tomsk sentenced to 240 hours of mandatory work resident of the city , who posted the video in a social network of extremist orientation , reported ria novosti on friday , representative of the press service of the regional court .
43	3	according to the court , in march 2013 the man posted a video on his page on the popular social network , which listed on the federal list of extremist materials .
43	4	against him was opened a criminal case on an article of the criminal code of the rf " actions aimed at inciting hatred and enmity , as well as the humiliation of the dignity of the person committed publicly " .
43	5	" leninsky district court has considered the case in a specific order and found a man guilty of committing this crime by appointing punishment in the form of 240 hours of mandatory " heroine works , said the agency .
43	6	she added that a man fully admitted his guilt .


44	1	parents can choose интерсексуальных__interseksualnykh children “ uncertain ” paul
44	2	germany became the first european country , which acknowledged the third floor in children born with external sex organs of intermediate type .
44	3	the newborn will no longer be necessary to attribute a male or female gender .
44	4	the new law does not require parents to call any floor of such children , allowing parents to set the floor as “ indefinite ” or “ unidentified ” in their birth certificates .
44	5	the purpose of the law was to remove pressure from parents that can take quick decisions about surgery for assigned gender newborn , and counter discrimination интерсексуальных__interseksualnykh people .
44	6	one интерсексуальный__interseksualnyy people , according to the bbc , he said many years later : “ i am not a man and not a woman . ”
44	7	i stay by doctors patchwork of product with bruises and scars .
44	8	roughly one in two thousand children , background , every year is neither boy nor girl .
44	9	they have one of the intersex , approximately 60 pathological conditions that fall under the diagnosis of disorders of sexual development ” — the collective term for people with атипичными__atipichnymi chromosomes , гонадами__gonadami ( яичниками__yaichnikami or семенниками__semennikami ) or unusually развившимися__razvivshimisya external sex organs .
44	10	wallis simpson may have been интерсексуалом__interseksualom .
44	11	gender identification is still not understood , but most experts in the united states say that when sex cannot be determined , it is better to use all available information and assign to it than to wait and monitor the psychological and physical development of the child before the operation , if it happens at all .
44	12	new york psychiatrist , dr. jack drescher , who specializes in gender identification issues , said that the new german law “ sounds like a good idea . ”
44	13	интерсексуальные__interseksualnye children creates an ethical dilemma .
44	14	“ some people have life-threatening violations that require surgical intervention , but the majority of children is not present them , ” he said .
44	15	you can assign to the floor without surgery and then see how personality develops .
44	16	the science of how the child will develop a gender identity , not too accurate .
44	17	no one can answer questions about why this is happening .
44	18	this is a mystery about why people are being homosexual .
44	19	the report sent to the european commission in 2011 , describes интерсексуальных__interseksualnykh people as distinct from transgender or transgender because their condition relates to 't гендеру__genderu , but to their biological structure which does not correspond to solely neither male nor female sex , and typical of both at once or not typical for any one of them .
44	20	these features can manifest themselves in secondary sexual symptoms such as muscle mass , hair distribution cover , chest and physique ; primary sexual signs , such as reproductive organs and genitalia , or in the structure of chromosomes and гормонах__gormonakh .
44	21	the report also gives a general idea about the discrimination faced by интерсексуальные__interseksualnye and transgender people in employment , as well as the level of harassment , violence and crime on the ground of prejudice .
44	22	the boys from gender variations now have a special camp .
44	23	australia and nepal has already allow adults to male , female or “ third gender ” in its official documents .
44	24	in june , a 52-year-old resident of australia норри__norri мэй-уэлби__mey-uelbi became the first person in the world , acknowledged “ бесполым__bespolym ” отстояв__otstoyav in court the right to maintain “ undetermined ” sexual status for life .
44	25	according to the ministry of internal affairs , the third german passports will be used in addition to mark m , f or x , i.e. интерсексуальный__interseksualnyy .
44	26	in neighboring france , gender issues are still controversial , according to a news release on the tv channel france 24 .
44	27	in 2011 , dozens of lawmakers from france , this a deeply catholic country , signed a petition to remove the “ gender theory ” from school textbooks .
44	28	american website catholic online also expressed disagreement with german law , writing that “ in a situation where the world is involved in a new state , where the floor is a matter of choice , and sexual activity — no , we still переворачиваем__perevorachivaem two pillars of civilization . ”
44	29	one mother of a newborn baby from the maryland site zone also announced that it would have to set the floor for children at birth .
44	30	“ it is difficult enough to raise a child , and without additional restrictions , especially if you do not know the sex of their child , ” she said web site for parents .
44	31	children need stability and confidence .
44	32	historically , children born with male and female reproductive organs , named гермафродитами__germafroditami — named handsome greek god who had signs of both sexes .
44	33	and yet just ten years ago the medical community воспринимало__vosprinimalo gender as a sheet on which we can all erase and then draw again .
44	34	but now many are questioning the ethical justification for surgery , knowing that gender identity is complicated , and doctors sometimes makes the wrong choice , not knowing how the child will be assigned him to the floor , when will grow .
44	35	“ in the middle of the 20th century , this was called " " urgent psychiatric case , ” drescher said .
44	36	when these children were born , you rang 't psychiatrist — you rang the surgeon .
44	37	the dominant theory about how to treat children with гениталиями__genitaliyami intermediate type , was proposed by dr. john mani of johns hopkins university , who believed that gender easily amenable to change .
44	38	he introduced into circulation , the term “ gender identity ” and argued that the signals of the environment , including the social — that , as parents , the parents of the child — interact with genes and hormones child , determining whether a person is considered to be a male or female .
44	39	but in one case of 1966 , known as “ john / joan ” , his theories were called into question .
44	40	he advised the parents of the boy , whose penis was damaged during the circumcision , negligent child also entirely castrating , removing his testicles , and raise him as a little girl .
44	41	“ mani presented the case as a successful example of a transition , but this was not the case , ” said drescher .
44	42	when he was about 15 years old , he became a little boy again and married to a woman .
44	43	but in 38 years , he committed suicide .
44	44	drescher said that today , some doctors are still “ apply this model . ”
44	45	but in the 1990s , with the advent of the internet , people who survived the operation for a sex change , declared himself “ dissatisfied with the result . ”
44	46	such was the case , by jim bruce , a writer from the state of montana , who was born with male xy chromosomes , but гениталиями__genitaliyami intermediate type .
44	47	doctors could not accurately determine whether he has had a large clitoris , or a small penis , and were convinced that he will never be able to live “ a life of men . ”
44	48	however shortly after his birth in 1976 external sexual organ and testicles bruce were surgically removed , and he was raised as a girl .
44	49	he began to give female hormones at the age of 12 years .
44	50	“ i knew that i was not a girl , ” he told abcnews.com.
44	51	i was unhappy , but it was very difficult to ask questions .
44	52	in the 18 years he was appointed vaginoplasty .
44	53	but being in the depression and understanding that something is wrong , he asked for medical records .
44	54	what he learned , it was terrible .
44	55	i was sterilized at birth , and no one ever told me about this .
44	56	bruce was born with a disorder of sexual development , which has kept his body to produce enough testosterone to normal development of genital mutilation .
44	57	after learning the truth , he again became a man , taking testosterone injections and removing their breasts .
44	58	the procedure made him sterile .
44	59	today , he performs in the defense of others in the organization called interface project , trying to bring in the normal perception of people with интерсексуальностью__interseksualnostyu .
44	60	but ann тэмар-мэттис__temar-mettis , executive director of the california association for legal advocates is informed choice , is concerned that the german law “ urges навешиванию__naveshivaniyu labeling and stigma . ”
44	61	“ many activists are concerned that the german law will encourage parents to take a hasty decision and give the child an uncertain " " floor , ” she said .
44	62	we are afraid that he will contribute to the intervention .
44	63	we believe that it is better to assign male or female gender , then to wait .
44	64	but we have not seen this law would behave , so all that we can do is to make suppositions .
44	65	тэмар-мэттис__temar-mettis said her organization supports the australian law , because “ it allows adults to make choice in favor of the third floor . ”
44	66	“ adults should be able to make their own decisions about the formal sex , ” she says .
44	67	german law implies its assigned at birth .
44	68	it is a battle in which the small children should not enter at this stage .
44	69	when they grow up , then they will be able to make decisions about their own bodies .
44	70	but dr арлин__arlin baratz , маммолог-рентгенолог__mammolog-rentgenolog from pittsburgh , which has a daughter with violation of sexual development and which helps hundreds of other people in the support group , said that german law “ support ” as parents , as well as children .
44	71	baratz daughter , katie , was born with male chromosomes , but it has its violation of the sexual development called complete androgen insensitivity syndrome . ”
44	72	because its андрогенные__androgennye receptors work incorrectly , katie have developed female characteristics .
44	73	she has a vagina , but no uterus and ovaries .
44	74	now , at 29 , katie is married and studies in pediatric psychiatry at the university of pennsylvania .
44	75	despite the fact that it barren , it hopes to become a parent via adoption or having gestational surrogate motherhood .
44	76	“ the law gives parents the time to not take any hasty decisions themselves , ” baratz said .
44	77	he gives them time to do any analysis or understand the situation , as well as the period of time before they write “ male ” and “ female . ”
44	78	in this case you in order — растите__rastite baby love child .
44	79	you have a lovely child , and you feel joy .
44	80	we do not need to do the operation quickly , which is irreversible .
44	81	“ it allows children to participate in solving and eliminates the excitement that is driven by parents , because they do not feel that doing the right thing , ” she said .
44	82	in the end the child decides what flooring him or her more comfortable — and that ’ s fine .
44	83	this gives children the opportunity to decide on their own .


45	1	u.s. secretary of state : the secret service sometimes " " went too far in collecting data
45	2	us secretary of state john kerry acknowledged that in collecting data and american intelligence services прослушках__proslushkakh " " sometimes went too far , nevertheless politician noted that appeared in the media information about 70 million people listening action does not correspond to reality .
45	3	i assure you that innocent people during this process was not injured , but was an attempt to gather information .
45	4	yes , in some cases it reached too far and was illegal in nature .
45	5	i accept it as признает__priznaet and president ... and we will ensure that this does not happen in the future , " afp quotes secretary of state .


46	1	experts equestrian events , съезжающиеся__sezzhayushchiesya in cardiff , to fight for the prize “ horse of the year ” knew that competition will be very high .
46	2	but no one was prepared for the emergence of a three-year fenton киркланда__kirklanda .
46	3	not even a schoolboy , just a few months before it made its first steps , this baby with your pet pony шетландским__shetlandskim тоффи__toffi a lynx промчался__promchalsya through three rounds to easily take the main prize , leaving 30 adults rivals far behind .
46	4	this неразлучная__nerazluchnaya pair — the same height — has received high marks for appearance , behavior and style at the annual competition , which is held in the city center of equestrian sport саннибенк__sannibenk радри__radri near cardiff .
46	5	leaving on a general review on the background of men and women in elegant шляпах-котелках__shlyapakh-kotelkakh , he shifted his набекрень__nabekren кепку__kepku and proudly held around the two-year тоффи__toffi .
46	6	the judges praised for his fenton never developed on years of innate ability with horses .
46	7	but тоффи__toffi received the highest score for appearance and character .
46	8	фентону__fentonu gave тоффи__toffi on his third birthday in march last year , and since then he has worked with шетландским__shetlandskim pony every day .
46	9	his mother also said : “ donna fenton and тоффи__toffi constitute a beautiful duet . ”
46	10	they had a lot of rivals , but these two have gone with a gold cup and розочкой__rozochkoy .
46	11	this was only his second performance with тоффи__toffi , and we were all delighted when he won .
46	12	totally unknown people in the arena thought him so phenomenal that wanted to take a picture with him .
46	13	this boy from the village that нантигло__nantiglo near эбб-вейл__ebb-veyl in south wales , is following in the footsteps of his aunt sharon хауэлс__khauels , which puts the horses for more than 10 years .
46	14	ms. хауэлс__khauels said : “ all the audience was stunned , and all chanted swallowed to cheers from and flapped . ”
46	15	he fled on the sand along the entire length of the arena and , although this looked like a tiny , perfectly made his case .
46	16	fenton crazy about animals — he loves horses , tractors and farm , and he has two chicken , about which he cares .
46	17	judging by how he started , soon it will already take part in “ horse of the year ” — and i am confident that he will play well .
46	18	a spokesman for the annual horse fair said : “ фентону__fentonu only three years old , but he knows how to deal with his pony . ”
46	19	together they are a great team .
46	20	the judges noted fenton and тоффи__toffi for their appearance , and for the way they presented themselves at шоу-ринге__shou-ringe .
46	21	they value coherence of ponies and is breeder and fenton тоффи__toffi were best in the ring .
46	22	i am confident that фентону__fentonu helped him look attractive outfit , he was really good in his role .


47	1	in the altai capsized bus .
47	2	in the district , altai krai рубцовском__rubtsovskom capsized bus paz .
47	3	as a result of the accident , according to data уточненным__utochnennym , injured 13 people , reported in the regional office of the ministry of emergency situations .
47	4	earlier , law enforcement agencies in the region reported 10 victims .
47	5	according to the agency , the accident happened around 9 a.m. local time on the highway - novonikolayevka вишневка__vishnevka , 1 kilometre from новониколаевки__novonikolaevki .
47	6	the bus , from следовавшем__sledovavshem рубцовска__rubtsovska in вишневку__vishnevku , there were 12 passengers and the driver , all the injuries of varying severity and were hospitalized .
47	7	eleven victims were taken to city hospital no. 1 рубцовска__rubtsovska , two people hospitalized in cdh рубцовска__rubtsovska .


48	1	the court suspended the execution of the judgment on the practice of “ остановить-и-обыскать__ostanovit-i-obyskat ” in the new york police department
48	2	on thursday , the court of appeal federal district has suspended enforcement of a court order demanding changes in the program “ остановить-и-обыскать__ostanovit-i-obyskat ” of the new york police department , and the judge dismissed the case .
48	3	united states court of appeals for the second circuit said that judge sheindlin ширы__shiry execution of decisions will be suspended pending the results of an appeal lodged on the city .
48	4	in august , a judge ruled that the city violated the constitution in how he carried out the program for street detention and questioning .
48	5	the city appealed the decision and the resolution on corrective measures , including a requirement to appoint the controller to help the police to change work practices and related training program .
48	6	on thursday , the court of appeal heard oral hearing on the request to suspend the case .
48	7	the court of appeal has said about the need to remove judges because it violated the code of conduct for united states judges and 't посчиталась__poschitalas with the need to avoid demonstrations of bias , in part because of a series of interviews to the media and official statements containing a public response to the criticism of the court .
48	8	the judge ruled that police officers violated the civil rights of tens of thousands of people unnecessarily turning to black and hispanic on the program “ остановить-и-обыскать__ostanovit-i-obyskat . ”
48	9	it has appointed external controller to oversee the far-reaching changes , which include reforms to the policies , training , and monitoring , and also agreed to launch a pilot program for testing закрепляемых__zakreplyaemykh on body cameras in the police stations , where there is a majority of detentions .
48	10	in august , new york came to the decision to cease the practice of storing the names and addresses of people , cases in which were stopped after a police investigation .
48	11	debate on appeal of the city should be held after march 14 , 2014 .
48	12	“ the tactic of stopping and searching ” was criticised for many lawyers in civil rights .
48	13	“ остановка-обыск__ostanovka-obysk ” practiced for decades in one form or another , but the number of documented stops increased dramatically under the administration of an independent mayor michael bloomberg ’ s , reaching in 2011 in an absolute maximum 684 330 people , most of them black and hispanic .
48	14	in 2004 , four people , all — representatives of national minorities , have filed a class action in court .
48	15	supporters of the changes in the program “ остановить-и-обыскать__ostanovit-i-obyskat ” in the new york police department say that these changes will end unfair practice , provide a more reliable and effective police service , and could affect how other departments of police carrying out the practice .
48	16	opponents argue that the change undermines the morale of the police , not the crime rate , would lead to unnecessary expenditure of money and will not solve the more global problem of difficult conditions in the police due to the reduced number of officers at several thousand over the last decade .
48	17	the judge noted that it did not stop the practice of “ остановить-и-обыскать__ostanovit-i-obyskat ” which complies with the constitution , but changes the way new york police stops of people .


49	1	azarov promised ukrainians collapse in commodity prices after the signing of the association with the european union
49	2	the prime minister of ukraine mykola azarov is convinced that prices will fall significantly in country after country will sign the association agreement with the european union .
49	3	he stated this in the course of the chat with readers on its facebook page " " .
49	4	i can definitely say that prices are determined by a number of factors , among which there , including customs duties .
49	5	so , after the signing of the agreement and the entry into force of the provisions on the free trade area , the level of customs duties on the import of goods from the eu will decrease significantly .
49	6	and this will mean that prices have to fall .
49	7	“ it is with regard to goods that come from eu countries , " azarov wrote .
49	8	as for other goods , the impact of the agreement on the price will not be so direct , it will be indirect .
49	9	but , nevertheless , there should not also be a rise in prices .
49	10	so the message to billboards , which lately has been quite a lot of appeared in our country , that association with the eu is rising prices , it is not quite so , or to be more precise to say - not so " " davit azarov .


50	1	rescue package in the amount of $ 325 million for tasmania health
50	2	the federal government insists that the bailout package of $ 325 million for tasmania weakened health systems will be complemented by severe conditions that guarantee that the state spends no money wasted .
50	3	federal minister for health tanya плиберсек__plibersek announced that the commonwealth is taking “ urgent steps ” to prevent the crisis caused by the ageing population of this island state , higher rates of chronic disease and system constraints .
50	4	a decision on funding over four years , was decided after government consultations with tasmanian independent andrew wilkie declared .
50	5	“ the government proposed a package of emergency rescue measures , which , we believe , will solve specific problems facing the state , ” ms. плиберсек__plibersek said today .
50	6	the package of $ 325 million includes $ 31 million on блиц-кампанию__blits-kampaniyu for planned operations .
50	7	another 2,600 operations , including orthopaedic and surgery to remove cataracts , will help to overcome a backlog .
50	8	there is also money for hospitals that accept patients without reservation , in hobart and лонсестоне__lonsestone , to improve the quality of care after in-patient , training medical professionals , mental health services and implementation of systems of personal electronic health cards in local hospitals .
50	9	“ this investment will go on advanced doctors made the implementation of ideas about how best to help tasmania health system , ” said ms. плиберсек__plibersek .
50	10	the minister insisted that the government of tasmania will operate in the mode of strict accountability and responsibility .
50	11	the state will need to maintain current levels of funding in order to receive cash of the commonwealth , and monthly report about where he spends these additional funds .
50	12	the commission will be created from three people to make sure the state provides services as can be more efficient and more effective .
50	13	mr wilkie said today that $ 325 million will solve nothing , if not “ behind them will be followed by genuine reform , which would put the health care system tasmania on a more sustainable basis . ”
50	14	nevertheless , he praised the government for a response to his request for urgent assistance , with which he first turned to the prime minister in early may .
50	15	“ i hope that the package of federal aid will significantly contribute to the conclusion of the health care system of this state from critical condition , ” said mr wilkie .
50	16	according to the state government , these additional sampling procedures largely compensate for recent cuts .
50	17	but the federal opposition spokesman on health , peter даттон__datton believes that today ’ s statement represents “ a solution similar лейкопластырю__leykoplastyryu . ”
50	18	“ the reason we are here is that the state labor government вырвало__vyrvalo $ 430 million of health system , ” he told the television network abc tv .
50	19	when the government of the state of lifting nearly half a billion dollars , and the commonwealth invests 300 million , you cannot pretend that this is good news .
50	20	mr даттон__datton asked ms. плиберсек__plibersek guarantee that no one dollar from the rescue package will not be spent on additional bureaucracy .


51	1	the cry of despair obama voter
51	2	i voted for president obama twice , sharing hope in possibility of change
51	3	he says obama allowed обструкционизму__obstruktsionizmu republicans overshadow the laudable efforts .
51	4	obstructionism cannot serve as justification for the problems with the website реформируемой__reformiruemoy obama health care system , drone attacks
51	5	memoirs of the obama campaign of 2008 are a sad reminder of what might have been
51	6	nathaniel morris p . - the second year student of medical faculty of harvard university .
51	7	i read a terribly sad book these days .
51	8	i thought that this book will inspire me in times of gloom in the second year of medical faculty and restore in me a sense of hope .
51	9	it is called “ the impudence to win ” , and this memoir about the presidential campaign of barack obama in 2008 .
51	10	when i finish my evening to write reports on patients and go to bed , this book brings me back to the time when the policy inspired millions of people , and performances could capture the spirit .
51	11	victory in the elections was formidable , and leading news programs did pause for reflection of this historical moment .
51	12	my classmates crying with joy , and my parents who guarded all newspapers , which only they could find .
51	13	the white house had come to a young team of strategists and the nation was ready for change .
51	14	while obama into office in 2008 , his level of support was 82 % .
51	15	then i close the book .
51	16	return to the present is a rude awakening , as выдергивание__vydergivanie from dreams .
51	17	it is hard to remember those days of optimism — they seem like a distant memory , a sad reminder of lost opportunities .
51	18	during the years that have passed since i dropped his first ballot , the changes actually occurred .
51	19	it was that i could not even imagine .
51	20	i give obama credit for its large and diverse achievements , from the adoption of the law on available medical care to the withdrawal of our troops from iraq , the cancellation of the rules of “ don ’ t ask , not tell ” , the killing of osama bin laden .
51	21	moreover , i believe that the party obstructionism has blocked too many attempts to move our country forward : immigration reform , choice of public health and the closure of the base in guantanamo , among others .
51	22	but after innumerable number of times , when i was on the side of the obama administration defending it in front of colleagues and peers , i have ended explanation , which i can provide .
51	23	i have reached the point of political desperation .
51	24	republican obstructionism could not explain the permission to прослушку__proslushku foreign leaders or drawing беспилотниками__bespilotnikami strikes on innocent children in other countries .
51	25	he could not explain to collect data about the private lives of americans , the national security agency or persecution , разоблачителей__razoblachiteley outlines government misconduct .
51	26	he could not explain the murder of u.s. citizen anwar al-aulaqi without trial or failure to comply with the limits of public financing and spending during the presidential campaign .
51	27	he cannot justify the findings of the report , which states that the прикладываемые__prikladyvaemye white house efforts to silence the media , are “ the most aggressive ... since the nixon administration . ”
51	28	and lately he cannot justify the fact that you cannot develop a simple web site for more than three years after signing the affordable care act .
51	29	i do not know that i should have been expected .
51	30	should i was at the age of 18 years to understand that leadership may contradict the political campaigns that precede him ?
51	31	it is obvious that work on an elective office is not predictable programme of action , because our public dialogue will form the opposition political party and random events such as the carnage in newtown .
51	32	yet for all the listed me above examples shows that they were largely his own choice of the administration .
51	33	and that is what bothers me the most .
51	34	i voted for obama again in 2012 , but not because i was enthusiastic about his candidacy .
51	35	mitt romney was a strange and crass alternative , it seemed that he was not in a position to make a decision on their own policies or views .
51	36	i thought that in his second term obama , freed from the pressure of future elections meets hope , about which we have heard for so long .
51	37	however , when this week , obama ’ s approval rating fell below 45 percent , to return to 2008 through this book has become much more difficult .
51	38	it makes me pine for many promises which улетучились__uletuchilis .
51	39	this week i read that part of the book , which describes how obama , clinton was deafening , defeated in the primary election in pennsylvania .
51	40	at the meeting on the analysis of the reasons of failures , he told his staff that they should go back to normal and remain faithful to its purpose .
51	41	“ i want us to have returned to our appeal , ” he said .
51	42	“ we must remember who we are . ”
51	43	five years have passed , mr president , and i agree with you entirely .
51	44	the opinions expressed in this commentary are solely натаниэлю__natanielyu моррису__morrisu .


52	1	in egypt , is sworn in as the first freely elected president
52	2	mohamed morsi takes the oath of office , but his day celebrations is unlikely to be the end of a знаменовать__znamenovat political struggle in egypt .
52	3	islamist mohammed morsi promised a “ new egypt ” when making oath , becoming the first freely elected president of the country , having replaced hosni mubarak , who was overthrown 16 months ago .
52	4	at his inauguration before the supreme constitutional court , morsi also became the first freely elected islamist president in the arab world and the fifth head of state in egypt after the overthrow of the monarchy some 60 years ago .
52	5	he took the oath before 18 judges in black мантиях__mantiyakh in court on the banks of the nile , built in the style of an ancient egyptian temple .
52	6	“ we strive for a better future , a new egypt and a second republic , ” morsi said during a ceremony shown live on state television .
52	7	“ today , the egyptian people laid the foundation of a new life — absolute freedom , a genuine democracy and stability , ” said morsi , 60th engineer with american education from the muslim brotherhood , the fundamentalist group from which most of the 84 years of its existence was a banned organization , служившей__sluzhivshey target for tough action by successive governments .
52	8	hundreds of soldiers and policemen guarded the building as morsi arrived with a small кортежем__kortezhem shortly after 11 a.m. local time .
52	9	only a few hundred supporters gathered at the court building to greet the new president , and , unlike the presidential fanfare since mubarak , the movement was stopped only for a short period of time to miss his convoy on the usually busy road linking the city centre with its southern suburbs .
52	10	although morsi ridiculed as “ нехаризматичное__nekharizmatichnoe spare wheel ” “ brothers ” , his personal prestige has soared since his victory and friday 's speech , in which he tried to present himself as a candidate not only islamists , but also all those who want to bring the matter before the end of the 2011 uprising against mubarak ’ s authoritarian rule .
52	11	“ egypt today is a civil , national , constitutional and modern state , ” morsi said , dressed in a blue business suit with a red tie , judges in обшитом__obshitom wooden panels hall where he took the oath of office .
52	12	later , morsi went to cairo university , where he had to pronounce its инаугурационную__inauguratsionnuyu speech .
52	13	he was be provided the official reception with army orchestra исполнившим__ispolnivshim national anthem during which he stood by the “ quiet . ”
52	14	field marshal hussein tantawi , attended military figure .
52	15	his arrival was greeted with the slogan “ the army and the people are one hand , ” who chanted hundreds gathered in the main lecture hall of the university .
52	16	founded in 1908 as a bastion of secular education , cairo university in the 1970s , became a stronghold of islamist student groups .
52	17	morsi took a symbolic oath on friday in tahrir square , where the uprising began , завершившее__zavershivshee mubarak ’ s authoritarian rule last year , and vowed to reclaim presidential powers , which his office was deprived of the military council that has made the case against the deposed leader .
52	18	but by agreeing to take the oath before the court , rather than before parliament as is customary , he performs the will of the military , and this is a sign that the power struggle will continue .
52	19	morsi ’ s speech in tahrir square was filled with theatres with populist gestures .


53	1	schools urged to pay more attention in math , spelling and grammar
53	2	school english literature courses will require pupils to study at least one shakespeare play , a 19th-century novel , romantic poetry and modern british fiction since 1914 .
53	3	the exam will also be presented “ внепрограммные__vneprogrammnye texts ” to encourage broader reading .
53	4	the combined english literature and language will be cancelled .
53	5	from 2015 , pupils will be obliged to take a final examination in language , with assertive recommendations of choice of english literature as a separate exam .
53	6	the department of education will tomorrow release new training programmes in english and mathematics — the first subjects подвергнутым__podvergnutym radical revision .
53	7	he will make changes in other key subjects in the next year .
53	8	separately in the regulator ofqual exams will present a revised structure of exams high school , with the new system , assessment and fewer course work .
53	9	speaking in the summer , education minister michael гоув__gouv said had “ reached a broad consensus that we need to reform our examination system to restore public confidence ” , insisting that the school final examinations will be “ more complex , more ambitious and more rigorous . ”
53	10	research shows that english schools devote less time mathematics ( 116 hours a year , or three hours per week in the quarter ) than in most countries .
53	11	for comparison — the australian schools give an average of 143 hours per year , and in singapore , pupils are engaged about 138 hours .
53	12	although the formal requirements to spend more time in the schedule will not mathematics , sources in the coalition said that large-scale school final examinations in mathematics , in combination with an increased coefficient table ratings , will likely serve as an incentive to give schools extra training on this subject .
53	13	in the curriculums , more attention will be paid to the tasks of real life , ” including financial mathematics .


54	1	football is the reason for this hatred ?
54	2	in the state duma within " public platform " politicians and experts talking about how to save the world in russia .
54	3	among the proposals sounded and this ban : football in the north caucasus , because from this game - some scandals and discord .
54	4	speaker sergei naryshkin reminded about recent events in бирюлеве__biryuleve and said that to reduce " degrees of tension in society " politicians and the media should be careful and accurate in using utterances .
54	5	perhaps he had in mind a recent scandal with vladimir жириновским__zhirinovskim , who in one television threatened to encircle the caucasus barbed wire , if there does not want to limit birth rates ...
54	6	all the speakers talked about the measures on regulation of migration from the cis countries , and on measures to harmonize relations between peoples , russia ’ s , which made the discussions сумбурность__sumburnost .
54	7	maksim grigoryev said that events in бирюлеве__biryuleve " model a conflict that could predict " but " for these questions we have answers too many people and the courts , and the seven babysitters child without an eye .
54	8	the concept of multiculturalism , which for a long time in terms of migrants practised europe , according to общественника__obshchestvennika , failed , and we need to find their way .
54	9	historian yuri petrov pinned high hopes on a new unified history textbook .
54	10	" still need to create allowance on the history of culture of the people of the country to schoolchildren in tatarstan knew that for people living in dagestan , and vice versa , he said .
54	11	gennady zyuganov suggested to criminalize the " appeals to dismember russia " : " if in the united states , say on the radio , that it is necessary to give alaska to russia , you get arrested and given 20 years in prison ! ”
54	12	vladimir zhirinovsky , very hard to stir a 't " " .
54	13	as usual , all he accused journalists who get sick and acute national problems in public debate : " little in the heat of debate whether what you say ! ”
54	14	the leader of the united russia faction " vladimir vasiliev immediately advised reporters to conclude " " charter and agree to talk on the subject carefully , and then the same obligations may assume and policy .
54	15	we have taken about 30 laws which regulate migration , and order in general is installed , said mr. vasiliev .
54	16	as an example , he cited a law that imposes on regional and municipal authorities responsible for ethnic peace in their territory .
54	17	but ludmila андриченко__andrichenko delight about this law is not divided : there are no " clear ideas about what such an adaptation of migrants , about its mechanisms and limits .
54	18	it means that actors will interpret differently the volume of these powers .
54	19	in addition , municipalities have no personnel necessary to address such complex issues , no money , and methodical recommendations , which they could use the centre , they do not give ...
54	20	the head of the duma committee on nationalities гаджимет__gadzhimet сафаралиев__safaraliev offered to create a special office with formidable name " " ministry of national security , which would be engaged in issues of national policy .
54	21	but valery artem tishkov , who in the 1990s led a similar agency , subsequently упраздненное__uprazdnennoe , opposed .
54	22	it is enough to have on the federal level , special person " " minister without portfolio , to which one might ask , if that .
54	23	“ we walk on the edge , shells are near , very important representatives of different ethnic groups and religions together to act against provocations , and this work must get decent information support " , said church spokesman vsevolod chaplin for relations with society .
54	24	no state neutrality in relation to dangerous ideologies , including religious ones , to be , in his opinion , it should .
54	25	oleg 's нилов__nilov away debate in an unexpected direction : " more talented people than in chechnya or dagestan , still need to look , but not pushing them on the way , not on the road , ” he said .
54	26	" " not the road is the development of football : the footballer beat the crowd , the flags are burning , the fellows throw stones each other ...
54	27	we may not need such a football ?
54	28	there is another kind of sport - rugby called ...
54	29	“ they will not be equal in the world in this sport ! " spoke ardently справоросс__spravoross .
54	30	rugby in the caucasus , no one will not play ! - immediately intervened , mr zhirinovsky .
54	31	you still curling them offer !
54	32	need to know the national peculiarities , this would still suggest that грузину__gruzinu " zaporozhets " " ...
54	33	in yaroslavl wild behavior in the stands - belong to the representatives of the moscow club during the game with the local club .
54	34	football will have to ban all over the country ...


55	1	the recognition of the national security agency reinforce the paranoia of corporations to state surveillance
55	2	warm day in late august , german police helicopter flew low over the u.s. consulate in frankfurt , germany ’ s financial capital .
55	3	according to the federal service for the protection of the constitution ( bfv ) , the german domestic intelligence service , its mission was to photograph the roof of the building , which is located less than 5 km from the european central bank and the bundesbank .
55	4	german media say the bfv had hoped to discover the intelligence listening devices , and these actions led to the talks between the us and the ministry of foreign affairs of germany in berlin .
55	5	james клэппер__klepper , director of national intelligence , in september , again assured that the united states will not use foreign intelligence capabilities to steal the trade secrets of foreign companies on behalf of u.s. companies to enhance their international competitiveness or increase their profits . ”
55	6	but since edward snowden , a contract employee who became разоблачителем__razoblachitelem — began to publish your treasury intelligence secrets to the united states , european governments and executives no longer sure whether to trust the director on the word .
55	7	reports that the u.s. national security agency monitored the brazilian oil company petrobras and gained access to the data stored in the cloud service providers , including google and yahoo , have raised the paranoia of corporations , persecution by the state , to new heights .
55	8	the last straw was the news that the phone of chancellor angela merkel , perhaps , auditioned about ten years .
55	9	if the most influential person of europe can become a target , you are , of course , potential targets and business leaders .
55	10	snowden made an obvious intensive cooperation between the intelligence services of the united states and companies .
55	11	i think it is quite likely that this data is used for mutual gain .
55	12	“ germany must wake up , ” said oliver grün , the president of the association of bitmi , which represents small and medium-sized it-company of germany .
55	13	german companies believe the us now poses almost the same risk as china , in the field of industrial espionage and data theft , according to a study published in july consulting agency ey .
55	14	in all the documents , uncovered by mr. сноуденом__snoudenom , nevertheless , has so far had no evidence that the united states passed the trade secrets of foreign companies in their own companies .
55	15	politicians expressed concern that the eu lacks a certain possibilities in the field of information technology and the internet , and expressed the opinion that he should try to reduce its dependence on the us .
55	16	businessmen are skeptical of that .
55	17	someone in the german parliament says that we must create a google .
55	18	i can only slowly close your eyes and open them again …
55	19	“ this is not an option , ” says гассо__gasso платтнер__plattner , president of the german company 's sap software for business .
55	20	if there is a need for a powerful european it industry , not have to allow her to die over 20 years ago .
55	21	all is subsidized in germany : from coal to cars and farmers .
55	22	all , apart from the it industry .
55	23	and yet the scope and the technical development of espionage agencies of the united states , which had become famous thanks to revelations сноудена__snoudena , were a shock for some companies who had previously thought that the greatest risk of exposure is china .
55	24	a big shift is happening in cloud technologies , where leaders of european companies better realized that data stored in the united states , are in the same jurisdiction and therefore potentially vulnerable .
55	25	according to the study conducted by the cloud security alliance , about 10 percent of its non-american members abandoned plans to use facilities located in the united states , the cloud provider after revelations of u.s. data mining programme prism .
55	26	jim снейб__sneyb , one of the sap executive board , said : “ we are seeing that consumers are asking a new question , which has not occurred a year ago , namely : where are my data and can you guarantee that they remain physically in this jurisdiction . ”
55	27	many german leaders argue that the last message — this is just confirmation of what they already knew : powerful states want to steal their most valuable secrets , and , consequently , these data should be protected at all costs .
55	28	what is economic espionage , is no surprise .
55	29	he always had a place .
55	30	“ this has been a subject of discussion for many years and not changed substantially in the current debate , ” says kurt bock , chief executive officer of chemical company basf .
55	31	americans шпионят__shpionyat for us on the commercial and industrial level , and we too шпионим__shpionim behind them , because it is in our national interests , protect our commercial ventures .
55	32	leaders of corporations typically do not like to boast of the retaliation they have taken , as this can provide an advantage to the enemy .
55	33	in large companies have long been усвоена__usvoena thought that take free usb drive at the exhibition or leave your laptop unattended in the hotel room is at least imprudently .
55	34	ulrich хакенберг__khakenberg , member of the board of directors of car company audi , says that for many years it is standard practice — collect mobile phones before board meetings , so they could not be used as подслушивающие__podslushivayushchie device .
55	35	the federal office for the protection of the constitution , germany recommends that managers of companies consider the use of simple pre-paid mobile phones during foreign trips because of the vulnerability of smartphones .
55	36	prepaid mobile phones subsequently blown .
55	37	nevertheless , there are fears that small and medium-sized companies remain vulnerable to взломов__vzlomov and surveillance .
55	38	in germany , many such companies are leaders in the world market in their particular niche .
55	39	“ small and medium-sized companies often lack the experience , staff and financial resources in order to effectively protect corporate secrets from unauthorized access , ” warns in the report of the bfv .
55	40	the united states warned their own companies about economic espionage from other countries .
55	41	the us national intelligence summary in february placed france along with israel and russia in the second series of offenders involved in хакерством__khakerstvom for economic intelligence , after china , says the washington post .
55	42	a member of the board of directors of the prestigious german company confirmed that when talking about economic espionage , the french are the worst of all . ”
55	43	bernard скарсини__skarsini , a former head of the french domestic intelligence agency , the dcri reportedly said in an interview this month : the services know perfectly well that all countries , even when they co-operate on counter-terrorism , шпионят__shpionyat for its allies . ”


56	1	los angeles international airport was evacuated because of a fire in one of the terminals .
56	2	an unidentified man opened fire in the third terminal at 09.30 hrs local time on friday , november 1 ( 20.30 icc ) .
56	3	guard эвакуировала__evakuirovala employees and passengers of second and third terminal .
56	4	according to preliminary data , a man was shooting a rifle with high capacity .
56	5	several people , including an officer of the united states transportation safety , were wounded .
56	6	police opened return fire and detained an intruder .
56	7	he easily wounded .


57	1	триподи__tripodi denies that was influenced by обейда__obeyda
57	2	the former new south wales labor minister joe триподи__tripodi will investigate фигурантом__figurantom anti-corruption authority this state .
57	3	the former minister of new south wales joe триподи__tripodi disproves the changes to the lease of maritime facilities at the request of his political mentor eddie обейда__obeyda secretly владевшего__vladevshego shares in three facilitiesinstallations property on public land .
57	4	the independent commission against corruption ( icac ) on friday extended its ​ ​ investigation of whether mr. obaid lobbied several state ministers to have the renewal of lease agreements at обейдов__obeydov серкьюлар__serkyular ki , where the family owns two restaurants and a cafe , without passing tender after the expiry of their actions in august 2005 .
57	5	she is now investigating allegations that mr. триподи__tripodi knew about the secret of mr. facilitiesinstallations обейда__obeyda in real estate , after testimony , data , the former deputy head of the administration of mr lynn триподи__tripodi эшпоул__eshpoul on thursday .
57	6	within a few years of discussions , which began in 2005 , the government insisted on getting the rent was exhibited on the outdoor contest .
57	7	tenants were against it , and wanted a long term lease .
57	8	in 2009 , companies lease agreements on серкьюлар__serkyular ki , who brought the family обейдов__obeydov about $ 2.5 million a year , has been renewed without exposing the outdoor contest .
57	9	mr триподи__tripodi , who was minister of infrastructure and transport from february 2006 until november 2009 , initially argued for open competition .
57	10	but he denied that the changes were made at the request of mr. обейда__obeyda , who both admitted mr триподи__tripodi , strongly advised to make changes in the rental of government policies .
57	11	the icac transcript of telephone conversations were triggered talk in august and september 2007 between mr обейдом__obeydom , mr. триподи__tripodi and steve , the senior official , who came to the ministry of ports after work under the leadership of mr обейда__obeyda in the department of fisheries .
57	12	“ the question was whether , in the course of the reviews of these telephone conversations , the question of the development of commercial lease policy ? ” — asked assistant commissioner anthony mr. wiley триподи__tripodi .
57	13	“ no , ” replied mr триподи__tripodi . —
57	14	i cannot remember what was discussed , but it was definitely not that .
57	15	definitely not between me and mr. обейдом__obeydom .


58	1	un announces new goals to fight poverty
58	2	the united nations organization must immediately begin to work on a new set of targets to replace the millennium development goals , which were formulated 12 years ago to overcome poverty around the world .
58	3	australian diplomats played a key role in the promotion of “ sustainable development goals ” to replace the mdgs , due to expire in 2015 , before a un summit on sustainable development in rio de janeiro , which began the previous evening .
58	4	they were included in the final version of the document , which has been signed by world leaders , including ms gillard , during the summit .
58	5	un secretary general ban ki-moon said on the eve of the summit participants that “ now is the time to rise above national interests . ”
58	6	“ i am glad that the un member states agreed to launch and take control of the process of creating a universal sustainable development goals — lrc , ” he said .
58	7	the lrc will build on our progress in the achievement of the millennium development goals , they will become an integral part of the concept of development for the period after 2015 .
58	8	i will do my best effort to use the authority granted me by the member states to fulfil our vision of sustainable development goals , which are based on the successful implementation of the mdgs .


59	1	the new line will appear in communal платежках__platezhkakh воронежцев__voronezhtsev expenditure - deductions for home repair .
59	2	in the rough calculations for standard two-room apartment with the new year had to pay extra from 100 to 400 rubles a month .
59	3	the government will determine the exact levels in the region .
59	4	but when paint entryway , cells are put in order , or even replace the elevator - will decide the tenants themselves .
59	5	such a law approved deputies in the regional duma .
59	6	vladimir klyuchnikov , chairman of the voronezh regional duma , said : “ in this case , too , need to introduce proper order - to install sequence капремонта__kapremonta homes do not accumulate funds in managing companies - which have often register it in moscow , then in orenburg , then elsewhere , it will be the establishment of state control over the expenditure of funds , which gather residents on the repair of apartment buildings .
59	7	under state control and now shared construction .
59	8	a law that protects from fraudsters , approved облдумой__obldumoy in the final reading .
59	9	the document was born not from scratch .
59	10	in our region , from the dishonest developers suffered 4.5 thousand of people .
59	11	most managed to solve problems .
59	12	by the way , the new law registers the rights and obligations for all the participants of the shared construction .
59	13	vladimir klyuchnikov , chairman of the voronezh regional duma , said : “ it is no secret that in this area , too , began the abuses associated with the fact that in the year 98-м__98-m дольщики__dolshchiki are one and the same , and in the 2000s , those same " дольщики__dolshchiki .
59	14	people have started to make money on it to cover the loophole , including these two , accepted the law .
59	15	under воронежем__voronezhem decided to build the centre for temporary stay of the foreign nationals to be deported .
59	16	the regional parliament adopted a law not only under the pressure of the federation .
59	17	the problems associated with illegal migrants in the region although prices .
59	18	therefore , the last year on record immigration got slightly more than 100,000 foreigners .
59	19	but only one in five has official permission to work .
59	20	where the rest are working and whether they pay their taxes is a big question .
59	21	vladimir klyuchnikov , chairman of the voronezh regional duma , said : “ they have violated the law , but are not criminals . ”
59	22	the court is not present , and we need to deport them - should contain somewhere .
59	23	this decision took federation that , at the expense of the regional funds to equip such places .
59	24	in the voronezh region is a place defined - it is an old olszanka семилукского__semilukskogo district .
59	25	well , in the end , the regional parliament , endowed with new privileges parents of large families .
59	26	first , educate families , where five or more children are fully exempt from vehicle tax .
59	27	the budget , in this case , losing 3.5 million - but the same save having many children and parents .
59	28	secondly , and this is important , those усыновит__usynovit 3 or more kids , with the new year will give subsidies to housing .
59	29	for each member of the family , the new law provides for 18 square meters , costs 30,000 per meter .
59	30	for example , a family of 6 people - a father , mother , child - native and 3rd adopted .
59	31	for them , according to the regulations , the state will acquire housing of 108 square meters - over 3 million 300 thousand roubles .
59	32	for the left bank or southwestern district - is an acceptable option .
59	33	well , in town for this amount you can buy for a cottage .


60	1	the centers for disease control and prevention released guidance for schools regarding allergies in children
60	2	on wednesday , the centers for disease control and prevention published a list of recommendations on the control of food allergies in children in schools .
60	3	this is the first list of such recommendations , which issued the u.s. government , while the number of school-age children suffering from food allergies is increasing .
60	4	now one of 20 children in the u.s. has a food allergy .
60	5	the centers for disease control and prevention found that the prevalence of food allergies among children increased by 18 percent from 1997 to 2007 .
60	6	this guide contains information for schools about how to increase awareness of faculty and staff about food allergies in children and how to help in case of allergic reaction .
60	7	it also recommends schools to hold reserves of adrenaline — often for injections used automatic medical syringe epipen — to help with potentially deadly анафилаксии__anafilaksii .
60	8	legislative bodies states recently made a change in the rules to allow the schools to do 此外 adrenaline with fewer difficulties .
60	9	the notice also contains a list of typical symptoms described children who have developed an allergic reaction .
60	10	children can say : “ felt as though something pokes in my language , ” “ this feeling that i have is the language of hair ” or “ language щиплет__shchiplet . ”


61	1	the kenyan press indignant provocative media law
61	2	“ this is a terrible place , and there is reason to question : what can prevent the destruction by the parliament of the independence of the judicial system in the future ? ” — told the newspaper , calling the law unconstitutional .
61	3	“ this law is very severe and punitive , and we reject it , ” said cyrus mau , managing director of the capital group - the parent company capitalfm , which is one of the most respected in kenya independent radio stations and news site .
61	4	he said a new judicial authority on media “ will always be partisan , since it is a continuation of the government ” , and restrictions on the content and advertising would hurt kenya ’ s position in the global economy .
61	5	“ i hope the president will listen to us , and we appeal to him to reject this bill and return it to the members of parliament , ” he said .
61	6	according to the newspaper the star , the new law essentially allows the government to “ take a stranglehold over the media , ” and the standard reported that democracy and freedom of speech in kenya " received a serious blow ” and attacked the bill as “ ’ s draconian . ”
61	7	the adoption of the draft law is part of measures taken to enhance national security after the september attacks by muslim terrorists in the westgate shopping centre .
61	8	the kenyan media have caused anger authorities транслируя__transliruya records of surveillance cameras , where troops who were sent to the place of attack , presumably plunder expensive shopping centre .
61	9	the response of the police chief david кимайо__kimayo became a challenge to two journalists and media officer for interrogation , although the call was canceled after the mass protests of the media .
61	10	under the new law , publishers could be fined up to $ 20 million kenyan shillings , and individual journalists — up to one million of the additional risk of being “ removed from lists ” , that is , a ban on receiving official journalistic accreditation .
61	11	the court also has the right to confiscate property infringer , if a fine is not paid .
61	12	according to the daily nation , “ even one fine enough to paralyze the work of most fm-радиостанций__fm-radiostantsiy . ”
61	13	she also said that these measures can have devastating effects on the so-called “ lively ” the blogosphere kenya .
61	14	politicians understand that , forcing the media silence , they can do whatever they want , with impunity .
61	15	“ nobody knows , ” wrote the journalist nation мутума__mutuma matthew , describing the kenyan media , as a key source of checks and balances in public life .
61	16	“ free-ranging politics ruin the country and will return us to the hunt and collect , ” he wrote .
61	17	kenyan lawmakers were the target of public anger in the past .
61	18	in may they voted to repeal cuts , appointed by the national commission on salaries , and restoring the size of their enormous salaries of about 532 thousand shillings a month , tax-free — one of the highest in the world .


62	1	investigators check information about ill-treatment with the child in the city
62	2	29 october media published a message that one of воспитательница__vospitatelnitsa kindergartens city бийска__biyska in educational purposes of the child locked in the basement .
62	3	now investigators are realized all the circumstances , and given the legal assessment of the actions of the employees of kindergarten .


63	1	after accusations of дурновкусии__durnovkusii eugenia vasilieva talking
63	2	eugenia vasilieva , to the person that almost a year on media attention , has still never комментировала__kommentirovala numerous publications in the press as the embezzlement in the ministry of defence , as well as about her personal - relationship with former defense anatoly , talk about her love of poetry and valuable things .
63	3	however , 1 november фигурантка__figurantka case " оборонсервиса__oboronservisa " break silence .
63	4	in an interview with life news vasiliev said : “ originally , of course , the task was exactly one : me out of any negative information in respect of the former defense minister .
63	5	it was blackmail on the subject that i must testify otherwise me is imprisoned .
63	6	today , these threats have stopped .
63	7	then we go to court will prove his innocence .
63	8	we are confident in victory at 100 percent .
63	9	at the time of the interview , you can make a conclusion that , perhaps , most васильеву__vasilevu задели__zadeli words about what she had no matter with taste .
63	10	probably refers to the statement by the official representative of the rf vladimir markyn about what in the collections of paintings , which collected фигурантка__figurantka case " оборонсервиса__oboronservisa " forgery surfaced .
63	11	among the arrested property has a number of paintings which hostess , being confident in their deep познаниях__poznaniyakh art acquired as masterpieces of world art .
63	12	but history examination by investigators after the arrest of these paintings , found that they have no artistic value and , simply speaking , are cheap counterfeits , " said маркин__markin in early october .
63	13	any paintings stolen from the ministry of defence .
63	14	then , acknowledged that they were not stolen from the ministry of defence , while told me that i have a bad taste .
63	15	who has the right to discuss my taste , discuss any personal moments ?
63	16	in my opinion , this is simply an outrage , " says vasiliev .
63	17	at the same time , the question of whether she admits his guilt although in one of her 12 accountable criminal episodes , vasilyev said : “ of course not .
63	18	admit nothing at all .
63	19	moreover , there is no damage to the russian federation concerned .
63	20	simply insert the misleading people , here and all .
63	21	in addition , in response to today ’ s announcement of the rf ic that vasilieva shies away from the study of the materials of the criminal case , the lawyer фигурантки__figurantki said that he and his client " investigator does not give access to documents in the case .
63	22	what was the cause of the revelations under house arrest - still not общавшейся__obshchavsheysya with the press ?
63	23	perhaps not as a woman , she failed to respond to the accusation of bad taste ?
63	24	or right journalists " комсомолки__komsomolki " утверждавшие__utverzhdavshie a couple of days ago that she " weighing in on an even bigger trance " under house arrest because of news about reconciliation , anatoly serdyukov , with his wife and his return to the bosom of the family ?
63	25	the famous military observer " kp " victor huperzia in his article " serdyukov returned to his wife ? ” wrote : “ investigators do not rule out that after such turmoil it may become more разговорчивой__razgovorchivoy " interrogation .
63	26	earlier vasilieva some accusations of illegal sale of ministry of defence property took upon themselves .


64	1	juve defender leonardo bonucci is not going to help the team in the championship match with italy " пармой__parmoy " .
64	2	as reported by the football italia , the coaching staff decided not to include it in the application for the game to поберечь__poberech before the match , the fourth round of the group stage of the champions league with " реалом__realom " .
64	3	also not participate in fights with " пармой__parmoy " lichtsteiner vučinić and pepe .
64	4	while forward fabio quagliarella has recovered from injury and ready to play .


65	1	the uk government announced the study , aimed at improving the economic benefits for scotland from the hs2 railway project .
65	2	hs2 high-speed project involves the opening message from scotland and the north of england , with the onset of the first stage in the year 2026
65	3	the transport minister baroness kramer noted that the project “ will unite britain . ”
65	4	scottish transport minister keith brown said he was “ delighted ” by the prospect of working on a plan with the uk government .
65	5	the first stage will be to build a new high-speed rail line between london and the west midlands .
65	6	when the second phase is completed , the line will be built in manchester and leeds .
65	7	in june , the government has revised estimated the cost of building a high-speed line between london and the north of england with £ 32.7 to £ 42.6 billion .
65	8	the uk government , which is in talks with transport scotland to hs2 ltd to further improve the capacity of the railway and reducing the length of trips to northern england and scotland .
65	9	this should include the ability to overcome the path from glasgow and edinburgh to london for three hours or less .
65	10	baroness kramer said : “ our aim for hs2 - create a truly national network , which will make the uk and its cities closer together . ”
65	11	we develop hs2 because benefits that it will bring , are enormous .
65	12	without it , we are faced with a crisis of capacity in our rail network .
65	13	but it is also about transport connection cities with each other ; across 18 uk cities , including glasgow and edinburgh , will be the best message to hs2 .
65	14	scottish secretary alistair carmichael added : “ today ’ s announcement is good news for scotland . ”
65	15	on behalf of the scottish government , keith brown has called mr. кармайкла__karmaykla “ unequivocally ” support the inclusion of scotland in a network of hs2 .
65	16	mr brown said : “ high speed railway has all chances to bring enormous economic benefits to scotland , but also adds to the economic weight of scotland in general argument for high-speed railroad across the uk . ”
65	17	therefore , we are pleased to work in partnership with the uk government to consider options for the construction of a high-speed railway in scotland , creating benefits for all and the continuation of a railway line of glasgow - edinburgh , which are already planning scottish government .
65	18	i look forward to reviewing the results of the study with british ministers in the next year and the joint decision on next steps .


66	1	the united states cut food aid for the poor
66	2	allowance for meals for a family of four is $ 36 a month
66	3	from friday in the us reduced financial provision of grocery coupons , known as " fs " as ends the corresponding state program .
66	4	the family food allowance of four people will now be allocated $ 36 a month less than in the past , officials say .
66	5	this will affect the 47 million of the poorest americans .
66	6	according to reuters , in fiscal year 2012 the benefit for one person was on average $ 133 a month .
66	7	spending on food aid in the united states rose to 80 billion dollars a year due to rising unemployment and food prices .
66	8	about 14 % of americans rely on free food aid on выдаваемую__vydavaemuyu " фудстемпам__fudstempam " носящим__nosyashchim such name from of old , when they had a form of paper coupons .
66	9	when the current economic crisis began , the program was expanded to stimulate economic growth and help the poorest americans .
66	10	but republicans in congress are demanding to hold further cuts in funds for the program , arguing that it should be aimed at helping those who need it more than others .
66	11	owners of food stores across america are worried that cuts will lead to a reduction in consumer spending .
66	12	u.s. congressmen still argue about how to further reduce the funding of the government .


67	1	because of new rules imposed by the russian customs for nearly a week on the border with russia in the queue are hundreds of lorries .
67	2	today donetsk officials promised to ensure drivers drinking water and install биотуалеты__biotualety
67	3	the border crossing points at the entrance to russia has accumulated hundreds of lorries .
67	4	this situation has arisen because of changes to the rules of customs clearance of goods .
67	5	ukrainian border guards and customs officers confirm : turn creates the russian side , which previously did not warn about innovations .
67	6	on october 28 , the customs authorities of russia began to apply additional measures to ensure delivery of cargoes , - said deputy head of eastern customs office vladimir denisov .
67	7	the new model is applied in countries that have joined the convention on international flights .
67	8	the checkpoints are expedited mode .
67	9	correspondent " facts " traveled to the border and talked to дальнобойщиками__dalnoboyshchikami , become hostage to the situation .
67	10	prices in a roadside магазинчике-кафе__magazinchike-kafe at a checkpoint " novoazovsk " grow with each passing day , as the queue of lorries .
67	11	trucks stood in several lines stretched for about two kilometers .
67	12	novoazovsk customs terminal - весело-вознесенка__veselo-voznesenka provides one of the most important transport routes from the south of ukraine on international motorways .
67	13	from there , the goods are sent in the stavropol region of russia , kazakhstan , georgia , armenia .
67	14	on sunday until midnight , and after another who introduced these rules - complains truck driver alexei голованев__golovanev ( pictured ) which takes transit via russia of supplies from turkey to kazakhstan and already almost a week or sleeping in his car .
67	15	under the new rules , to cross the border , i need an additional package of documents and payment of insurance of cargo .
67	16	the amount depends on the value of the cargo and the distance at which he is being driven .
67	17	the minimum insurance - 4.5 − 5 thousand rubles ( about 1100 and 1300 uah ) .
67	18	those travelling in ( say , in georgia , armenia ) with cargo worth up to 50 thousand dollars , pay about 15 thousand rubles ( 3800 uah ) and passing .
67	19	and the rest are stuck - neither have such big money with me not !
67	20	imagine if the driver takes a package worth just four thousand dollars , but all the way to moscow , he needs 90 thousand rubles ( almost 23 thousand hryvnia ) to pay for transit .
67	21	conditions for survival on the border - no - complain , truckers have устроившиеся__ustroivshiesya near their vehicles .
67	22	in border shops and cafés and so are always expensive , but those prices , as here , we never met !
67	23	sellers and their сориентировались__sorientirovalis quickly взвинтили__vzvintili : 15 grivnas worth baton , seven hryvnias - the cup of coffee , 25 uah - a plate of soup .
67	24	but one кафешка-то__kafeshka-to .
67	25	and no toilets .
67	26	in the steppes of sleep , there go to the toilet .
67	27	no washing or shave ...
67	28	i can and a week from the car not to go , my wife on the road all наготовила__nagotovila .
67	29	week протяну__protyanu , " consoles themselves another truck driver viktor скотаренко__skotarenko .
67	30	lee only comes up to my machine turn for a week ?
67	31	how do you have one and a half litres of some water ? - interested in single which frontier .
67	32	there are 11 and 15 grivnas .
67	33	that , or a bottle of crystal water настояна__nastoyana on silver ?
67	34	we have cafes , not shop .
67	35	take until something else is , " парирует__pariruet shopgirl .
67	36	after the situation in the media began to report on the plight of the ukrainian drivers to the attention of the authorities in the region .
67	37	leadership амвросиевской__amvrosievskoy and новоазовской__novoazovskoy райгосадминистраций__raygosadministratsiy received instruction to ensure all those who простаивает__prostaivaet in the queue at the border украинско-российской__ukrainsko-rossiyskoy , drinking water , said acting chairman of the donetsk regional state administration sergey дергунов__dergunov .
67	38	now at checkpoints дежурят__dezhuryat ambulance brigade .
67	39	also for the convenience of the people will be installed биотуалеты__biotualety .
67	40	according to the official , the problem with bursts of , will be solved in the coming days .
67	41	as the press service of the donetsk regional state administration , as of 31 october in international checkpoints " успенка__uspenka " and " novoazovsk " простаивали__prostaivali respectively 32 and 68 vehicles .
67	42	" facts " will monitor the development of the situation .


68	1	sony expects lower annual earnings
68	2	the japanese electronics maker , sony corporation , ending the quarter with a net loss of $ 19.3 billion yen , or $ 197 million , reduced the forecast profit for the current financial year .
68	3	sony results for the period from july to september 2013 were more удручающими__udruchayushchimi than expected due to falling demand for televisions , cameras and personal computers manufactured by japanese corporations .
68	4	sony television business , in the second quarter , bringing the company for three years , operating profit at $ 5.2 billion yen in the reporting period again fell to 9.3 billion yen operating loss .
68	5	the japanese consumer electronics market is experiencing difficult times , particularly due to lower demand for tvs .
68	6	and while competitors are keen to find a way out of a difficult situation , sony continues to focus on the consumer segment .
68	7	for example , one of the main rivals sony , panasonic corporation , lately shifts the emphasis on industrial components : here , the company ’ s sales are growing at a rapid pace , especially at the expense of automotive systems and clean technologies .
68	8	as a result , by the end of the fiscal year , which ends in march 2014 , sony expects to get 179 billion yen operating profit against the expected previously 230 billion yen .
68	9	the agency , according to thomson reuters , analysts suggested that this figure will be significantly higher and $ 221 billion yen .
68	10	in order to emerge from the crisis , sony expands product line .
68	11	in the middle of this month was declared the start of sales of smart watches from japanese corporations , endowed with a number of fashionable features that will get rid of the need for 100 times a day pull a smartphone out of his pocket .
68	12	after sony lowered its annual forecast for profit and revenue , the company ’ s shares in the morning at the opening of торогов__torogov in tokyo lost in price more than 11 % , dropping to a level 1668 yen per share .


69	1	how many earn late celebrities - mk mk in the u.s.
69	2	ratings of living celebrities with the highest income in 2013 , led by madonna , заработавшая__zarabotavshaya 125 million dollars .
69	3	but her " переплюнул__pereplyunul " the late michael jackson , whose posthumous earnings between october 2012 and october 2013 totaled 160 million .
69	4	noticeably behind him other departures from the life of celebrities , who last year earned " " several times less .
69	5	second in the list of the most affluent " " departing celebrities drawn up by forbes magazine at the end of the year was elvis presley - 55 million for the year but below the line , comic book author charles schulz peanuts with 37 million .
69	6	besides them in the top five included elizabeth taylor , a former leader in the past year ( 25 million ) , and musician bob marley ( 18 million ) .
69	7	the list also included marilyn monroe , john lennon and albert einstein .


70	1	эсер__eser offers amounted to extremism insult patriotic feelings
70	2	for the legal protection of citizens from patriotic feelings directed against russia provocations and insults " fair russia " offers an insult to patriotic sentiment to extremist activity and punish it for five years in prison .
70	3	according to the newspaper izvestia , such amendments to legislation prepared зампредом__zampredom duma committee on energy oleg михеевым__mikheevym already sent to see a conclusion to the supreme court and the government .
70	4	under the patriotic feelings of the citizens to understand the author of amendments offers an emotional link man with the country of which he is a citizen , characterized by love for this country , a responsible attitude to her fate , respect for its history and culture .
70	5	it indicates mikheev , in domestic law there are penalties for abuse of formal signs of state authority - the flag and national emblem .
70	6	at the same time , according to the parliamentarian , the protection of russians , whose feelings can be and are affected by an insult state symbols , and other manifestations of disrespect for our country , in the russian legislation written enough .
70	7	as an example , he cites collapsing annually on the eve of victory day debate when some media people allow themselves questioning the heroic feat of the people of the soviet union in fighting the nazis .
70	8	on the eve of the main people holiday - victory day on 9 may - takes place annually this bacchanalia .
70	9	in упражняясь__uprazhnyayas " " остроумии__ostroumii and alternative view on history , some publicists reach reasoning about what , say , it is a pity that the cultural germans 't wild won the soviet union !
70	10	i think this is completely unacceptable in a country where pride in history remains the main " spiritual " cement of the nation , " oleg mikheyev is outraged .
70	11	in addition , according to the same patriotic minded people in russia much more than religious , but in this case the law punishes for insulting religious believers and offending patriotic feelings can be almost with impunity .
70	12	according to national preferences , it is an insult to patriotic sentiment to extremist activity and prescribe in 282-й__282-y article of criminal code of appropriate punishment .
70	13	the bill provides for penalties for insulting the patriotic feelings : from 100-тысячного__100-tysyachnogo fine of up to 5 years in prison .


71	1	the new features of public supervisory commissions will increase the influence of the jailers
71	2	today the council chamber ( pr ) can approve new compositions public supervisory commissions ( september protests ) in 42 regions of russia .
71	3	if adopted will be put to the vote option , lobbyists siloviki will increase its influence .
71	4	the september protests - public structures that control conditions of detention .
71	5	the case of sergei magnitsky and leonid развозжаева__razvozzhaeva , unrest in копейской__kopeyskoy colony - it is through the september protests get publicity most high-profile incidents behind bars .
71	6	there is a struggle for control of the september protests between human rights activists and lobbyists for the security services .
71	7	at a meeting of the public chamber working group on formation of the september protests , i offered to make selection experience of human rights work .
71	8	“ he was not accepted , and formed the lists 't выработав__vyrabotav " criteria , says valery борщев__borshchev .
71	9	борщев__borshchev - the current chairman of moscow and observation committee of the association of independent observers - national structure of human rights defenders in prison problems .
71	10	when a deputy of the state duma from yabloko , he developed a law regulating the september protests .
71	11	the council chamber must vote to 43 compositions of the september protests in regions of the country .
71	12	at 1800 vacant seats are less than a thousand people , and in ingushetia and kabardino-balkaria contests failed to organise because of a lack of candidates .
71	13	bing promises to organize донабор__donabor on vacant places .
71	14	the september protests in moscow is one of the few commissions with the contest , despite the fact that the new line-up will replace 20 of the 40 participants .
71	15	according to борщева__borshcheva , in the current composition of the commission that 11 human rights defenders and 9 security forces and in version , which is located on a vote in the chamber , the ratio varies by 17 to 23 .
71	16	at the same time , in creating the commission wanted to get 30 human rights defenders .
71	17	but in the new lineup could reenter " " military brotherhood spokesman vyacheslav kalinin .
71	18	for three years he was a member of the september protests , but never visited detainees .
71	19	борщев__borshchev believes that the security forces , by appointing a chairman of the september protests , will be able to make the work of human rights defenders , however intolerable human rights defenders are not mutually exclusive collective out of commission .
71	20	in their opinion , the promotion of the september protests by coordinating member anton flowers , head of the russia " officers " organization defending the interests of security forces .
71	21	“ i don ’ t eat babies on the head ­ truck " , said rbc daily anton flowers .
71	22	he denies that any of the lobbies promoting lists and says that is not going to impede human rights defenders to visit detained opposition activists .
71	23	according to 1972 , he is not even interested in , for what kind of list now vote in pr .
71	24	disclosure of the information борщевым__borshchevym he sees as a form of pressure .
71	25	the possible success of the human rights defenders - планирующаяся__planiruyushchayasya leadership chelyabinsk september protests .
71	26	its former leaders sweep because of last year ’ s unrest копейских__kopeyskikh .
71	27	in the public chamber came to the conclusion that the leadership of the local commission ignored the problems of prisoners .
71	28	but the september protests rostov-on-don can pass from human rights activists by security officials .
71	29	the new lists " missing " правозащитник-председатель__pravozashchitnik-predsedatel local commissions , but turned out to be one of his opponents , despite the fact that in may 2013 , the public chamber of the disqualified him for неэтичное__neetichnoe behavior .
71	30	lists of moscow and rostov commissions борщев__borshchev believes " revenge for kopeysk " .
71	31	hope revelations толоконниковой__tolokonnikovoy 't influence the september protests mordovia , which consider " " power : in a new staff wanted to get only one human rights defender , and she has not even accepted documents for the competition .
71	32	a member of the public chamber , nikolai svanidze told rbc daily that voted against the proposed list , as his are revolted by the situation in moscow and rostov-on-don .
71	33	their position , he sent out to other members of the council .
71	34	his colleague in the pr pavel gusev says he voted for , because he likes the proposed list of moscow .
71	35	coordinated the drawing up of lists of the september protests , the deputy secretary of the pr vladislav mushroom , also a researcher at the research institute of the federal service .
71	36	mushroom told rbc daily that it considers it right to divide candidates for human rights activists and security forces and do not agree with the fact that the chairmen of the commissions of enough power to obstruct the work of its members .
71	37	mushroom is not predicting the vote of the council chamber .
71	38	if the proposed list of today will be rejected in the coming days to vote will make the changed version .


72	1	clive palmer claims that the mp tony abbott embracing conflict of interest in the issue of leave to care for a child .
72	2	депутат-миллиардер__deputat-milliarder clive palmer says the prime minister tony abbott embracing conflict of interest in the issue of leave to care for a child because his daughter can get pregnant and learned from this benefit .
72	3	the mining magnate , who has an unregulated dispute on payment of tax on carbon emissions in the amount of $ 6 million , made this statement at the time when he tried to dismiss the questions about whether he had a conflict .
72	4	palmer united party can control up to four votes in the senate , which could be crucial in deciding to abolish the taxes on carbon emissions and mining activities .
72	5	but mr palmer argued that the conflict of interest could only be ministers have , and said that the daughter of mr abbott embracing will personally benefit from the political measures .
72	6	“ he has a major conflict of interest when it comes to paid leave to care for a child , because if any one of those daughters will conceive , then he will have a direct interest in how they receive their vacation or not , ” said mr palmer .
72	7	two months after the election , the electoral commission officially declared mr palmer the winner in the fight for a place on the sunshine coast , queensland electoral district in fairfax county , virginia with a margin of 53 votes after a recount of the votes .
72	8	mr palmer called for a review of the procedures of the counting of votes on the elections to accelerate this process .
72	9	tony abbott embracing daughters frances and bridget .
72	10	should a decision be taken on these elections two months after we voted ?
72	11	“ we need to have a more advanced system , ” he said .
72	12	this is why we should not have such a system , so that it can come to enter your data into a computer , the right to vote and get a result at 18 : 30 the same evening ?
72	13	mr palmer also criticized the use of pencils for marks on ballots .
72	14	this is because they can erase someone result if he did not like it ?
72	15	use the pencil in our time it seems strange .
72	16	electoral commission studying the options for electronic voting and recently published a discussion paper with new zealand .
72	17	59-year-old mr palmer said his program includes an international airport for the sunshine coast airport and he will be “ very seriously ” approach to his new job .
72	18	the state office provides service to society .
72	19	“ we are not any of the awards , in addition to appreciation of history , for the fact that at a critical moment , we can serve this district , ” he said .


73	1	companies against google , samsung , huawei claims made for nortel patents
73	2	the group , which owns thousands of former nortel patents , filed thursday in a series of patent lawsuits against manufacturers of mobile phones , including google , the price of which she перебила__perebila at auction for nortel bankruptcy .
73	3	rockstar consortium , bought for $ 4.5 billion nortel patents , filed claims for infringement of patent rights in the u.s. district court in texas against samsung electronics co ltd , htc corp , huawei and four other companies .
73	4	rockstar is in joint ownership of apple , microsoft , blackberry , ericsson and sony .
73	5	google is accused of violating seven patents .
73	6	these patents cover technologies that help compare keywords in internet search with the relevant advertising to them , according to the lawsuit , that is the basis of search business to google .
73	7	representatives from samsung , htc and huawei , rockstar were unavailable and did not give any comment .
73	8	samsung , huawei and htc to make phones running on the android operating system from google , which ruthlessly competes with mobile products from apple and microsoft .
73	9	in 2011 , google offered for the nortel patents at an initial price of $ 900 million .
73	10	google several times raised the proposed price , eventually offering as much as $ 4.4 billion .
73	11	after losing the case on nortel patents rockstar consortium , google acquired motorola mobility for $ 12.5 billion , the determining factor in this transaction was partially library of patents motorola .
73	12	“ despite an abortive attempt to buy at auction the patents , which are the subject of a lawsuit , google has violated and continues to violate them , ” says in a lawsuit .
73	13	rockstar requires increased damages from google , as he argues that the violation of patent rights by google is intentional , according to исковому__iskovomu request .


74	1	the stadium in yaroslavl was not ready for reception of 22 thousand spectators , said police , who were present today at a meeting of the rfu council 's .
74	2	билетная__biletnaya program is , in their opinion , approximately two times .
74	3	during the match 1 / 16 of the final of the russian cup with spartak was involved only a thousand stewards when регламентной__reglamentnoy norm in nine thousand .
74	4	спартаковским__spartakovskim fans had 2,200 seats , that is 10 percent of the capacity of the stadium , however , in agreement with the moscow club , it has sold 5,000 tickets .
74	5	these data gave council 's head artur grigoryants .


75	1	bird , переброшенная__perebroshennaya through the air in a safe place with drilling rig in the north sea , was released back into the wild
75	2	bird , переброшенная__perebroshennaya by air to the shore after it found in the steeple истощенном__istoshchennom condition on oil in the north sea , was released back into the wild .
75	3	this water the shepherdess was placed in a helicopter bound in aberdeen last month , and then his left scottish branch of the society for the prevention of cruelty to animals ( spca ) in спасательном__spasatelnom centre in alloa .
75	4	centre manager colin seddon said : “ this water rail , most likely , is the winter migrant from northern europe , which has got in a zone of strong winds over the north sea . ”
75	5	it seems that bird обессилела__obessilela and managed to find refuge in oil steeple .
75	6	he added : “ she was not able to soar again , so we turned for help . ”
75	7	water rail was healthy and in good condition by the time he was released .


76	1	fines for unauthorized street trade in vologda grow at times
76	2	according to the city government , an increase in the size of the fines will help bring order to the streets of vologda and release from natural tents and stalls .
76	3	the majority of street vendors do not pay taxes , the products they sell , often does not pass соотвествующий__sootvestvuyushchiy sanitary controls .
76	4	and it means that the health of endangered is platon вологжан__vologzhan .
76	5	so , the bottom of a fine for citizens in unauthorized trade since november , will increase to six times - with 500 rubles up to 3,000 rubles , informs the press-service of the administration of the vologda .


77	1	in september , with the ford motor plant in всеволожске__vsevolozhske was laid off 600 people .
77	2	as they say in the trade unions , all laid-off received compensation .
77	3	however , much sharper than the problems of workers , raising a question about a reduction in industrial production in the region .
77	4	deputy regional sachs alexei этманов__etmanov at the meeting said that the plant ’ s ford in всеволожске__vsevolozhske cut about 600 people .
77	5	according to him , this happened back in september , then on a programme of voluntary dismissal , which was developed together with trade union organisations , with the plant left about 600 people .
77	6	workers who decide to quit on his own volition , were offered " golden parachutes " amounting to several salary .
77	7	because of this , the vast majority of jobs have left on his own volition .
77	8	however , according to этманова__etmanova , such a number of people - it is a night shift .
77	9	i think this is not limited .
77	10	however , authorities in the next two years , does not plan to accept any of the programs to support regional enterprises , are in a difficult position , he explained , adding that when making a budget the government does not take into account the stagnation of production in the region and a big reduction in jobs .
77	11	in an american " " this information does not refute and does not confirm .
77	12	we are waiting for a response from the company , and as soon as he appears , it necessarily 'll .
77	13	talk about cutting workers at a ford plant in " " всеволожске__vsevolozhske go long .
77	14	so , for example , the company plans to sack 600 people became known back in september .
77	15	the plant previously announced suspension of car production .
77	16	as reason to plant called the drop in demand for ford cars in russia .
77	17	according to петростата__petrostata , for the first nine months of 2013 , the volume of industrial production in the leningrad region declined by 5.4 % .
77	18	production of vehicles and equipment fell by 11.5 % .


78	1	dmitry medvedev : russia gdp growth rates are insufficient for the development of the state
78	2	russian prime minister dmitry medvedev says insufficient for its gdp growth and believe that the situation can be improved by easing credit conditions of business and changing the structure of the russian economy , focusing on innovation , reports reuters .
78	3	we planned this year , gdp growth in the region of 3 % , maybe even a little more .
78	4	real will be slightly less than 2 % .
78	5	against the backdrop of recession in a large number of countries of europe seems to be not too bad , but for us it is not enough because economic base and not so powerful , as in a number of countries , and in general , in order to grow , the rate should be higher .
78	6	it is now very important to russian companies and russian business received normal loans at a normal price - it is the first thing you should definitely make " , - head of the government stressed .


79	1	director " yugra " andrei бельмач__belmach noted that while it is difficult to say how much time it can take to find a new head coach .
79	2	the post became vacant following the resignation of sergey шепелева__shepeleva .
79	3	the resignation came just a few hours ago , however , to say how much time it will take on the search for a new coach , i am not ready , - itar-tass cites the words of бельмача__belmacha .
79	4	may day .
79	5	maybe a month .
79	6	we are studying all options .
79	7	priority will be given to russian specialist .
79	8	we want not just to find a coach and a man that performing its actions in our club a few years and achieve certain results with him .


80	1	olympic snowboarder for bills specifically taking
80	2	the bank of russia on wednesday released a commemorative bank note in circulation on the city of sochi , where already this winter olympic games will be held .
80	3	denomination banknotes - 100 roubles .
80	4	but in a network of bloggers are already actively иронизируют__ironiziruyut over commemorative notes .
80	5	after the presentation of the olympic bills on october 30 , they drew attention to the fact that the image of a snowboarder with the notes can be found in фотобанках__fotobankakh .
80	6	in particular , in a free photo storage stockexchange , where this picture dates from 2005 .
80	7	the same photo is used in lesson on photoshop , published on the russian web site " мегаобзор__megaobzor " 18 january 2011 .
80	8	in addition , it is already used in advertising ruggear smartphones .
80	9	olympic banknote performed in сине-голубой__sine-goluboy range .
80	10	on the one hand , a snowboarder flying over sochi , on the other hand , views of the olympic stadium and the firebird .
80	11	the author of the design of banknotes - paul bushuev , won in a competition among students of the saint petersburg academy of arts named repin .
80	12	the presentation noted that was seen a few sports - skiing , freestyle skiing and ski jumping , but eventually opted for snowboarding , because it is a relatively young sport .
80	13	according to a source of izvestia , close to the central bank , the regulator is not indifferent to public opinion regarding the wide dissemination of images with olympic snowboarder banknotes and are investigating the situation .
80	14	and here in гознаке__goznake not too worried about the commotion around the olympic notes .
80	15	the head of the press service госзнака__gosznaka natalia никифорова__nikiforova said " известиям__izvestiyam " that all discussion about plagiarism funny .
80	16	the snowboarder is pointed to the right in the photos on the web - to the left - detailed никифорова__nikiforova .
80	17	the man in the photo shoots for creating 've banknotes from different points , then was selected the final image , it is a characteristic pose snowboarder .
80	18	it also noted that the copyright laws do not apply to the olympic bill , as the artist received a salary for the job .
80	19	according to experts , the debate around the image on the olympic bill and it is positively .
80	20	the image on the banknote is a plus for her promotion , said executive director of " русбренд__rusbrend " alexey поповичев__popovichev .
80	21	to prove 100 percent similarity of images on the banknote in фотобанках__fotobankakh quite difficult , however , to question the claims of intellectual property in this image is unlikely to come .
80	22	for the first time olympic bill appeared in china - the olympic games in beijing in 2008 was released commemorative banknote in 10 yuan .
80	23	russia has decided to support this tradition .


81	1	fashion week in sao paulo .
81	2	her at home is not just a fashion model , and the real star .
81	3	despite the fact that giselle бюндшен__byundshen at some time left work after motherhood on these days and on the catwalk this week she came here specially .
81	4	many months absence did not prevent it to keep its place on the podium or on the podium .
81	5	giselle remains the most highly paid supermodel in the world .
81	6	this time she participated in the fashion brand " колччи__kolchchi " .
81	7	the final week of fashion - usually the most interesting fashion .
81	8	like the fact that organized the stylist lino виллавентура__villaventura .
81	9	brand for more than 30 years , along with the production of luxury ready-to-wear , the designer is actively working in the theatre and in movies , putting performances and designing costumes for many famous paintings .
81	10	in total , in завершающейся__zavershayushcheysya fashion week in sao paulo participated more than 30 thousand firms and companies that are relevant to the textile industry and the world of fashion .
81	11	this is one of the most dynamically developing fields of production , employing more than 2 million brazilians , and an annual turnover of up to 50 billion dollars .


82	1	the driver , ехавший__ekhavshiy at speeds of 130 miles per hour with a hot drink between the legs , fined £ 1,000
82	2	avtomobilist yekaterinburg was fined £ 1,000 for driving at speeds of up to 130 miles per hour ( 210 km / h ) with a hot drink detained between legs .
82	3	35 andrew howie from tiptree , essex , was spotted behind the wheel of his mercedes benz on the a120 in брейнтри__breyntri on may 27 .
82	4	when police stopped him , they found the drink to take away from him between the legs .
82	5	the world court колчестера__kolchestera howie admitted the charge of driving without due diligence and attention .
82	6	adding to his identity водительскому__voditelskomu seven penalty points resulted in him receiving a six-month ban on driving .
82	7	howie also was ordered to pay costs of £ 90 and an additional fee for victims of crime in the amount of £ 100 .


83	1	in belarus since november have been increasing pensions
83	2	in belarus since november of this year have been increasing pensions , told belta on pension main directorate of the ministry of labor and social protection .
83	3	from november 1 this year will be paid the average salary of workers in the republic , with the previous rape примененной__primenennoy pensions , with an increase in its magnitude at 5.4 % and made the appropriate accounting labour pensions in accordance with the decree of 21 october 2013 # 478 " " on raising pensions .
83	4	as a result of the restatement , since november , according to labor pension age increase estimated on average by 5.3 % .
83	5	average pension by age is estimated at br2 million 295 thousand .
83	6	pensions touches 2.4 million inhabitants of the republic .
83	7	the cost of fund of social protection of the ministry of labour and social protection of belarus on pensions in elevated amounts from november of this year will increase by br274,3 billion per month .
83	8	simultaneously with the recalculation of pensions in november of this year will be minimal перерассчитаны__pererasschitany and social pensions , allowances and pensions , increasing the allowance for subsistence in connection with the increase in average per capita .
83	9	living wage for the period from november 1 , 2013 through january 31 , 2014 , approved by the government in the amount of million 47 thousand br1 . . 530 - by 2.1 % higher than which operated during the period from 1 august to 31 october .
83	10	accordingly , to 2.1 % from 1 november would increase the size of the minimum labour pensions , social allowances and pensions , bonuses and increases to pensions .
83	11	in belarus on pensions with the increases in 2013 is more br53 трлн.-0-__trln.-0-


84	1	nsa blames “ internal error ” rather than hackers in termination of the site
84	2	окутанное__okutannoe secret national security agency announced on friday afternoon that shut their site for several hours caused a technical failure , not hackers , as affirmed in the network .
84	3	“ nsa.gov was unavailable for several hours tonight because of an internal error that occurred during a scheduled update , ” said an intelligence agency official in the letter .
84	4	the problem will be solved tonight .
84	5	statements that перебой__pereboy in work was driven by a distributed denial of service attack by “ type ” ] ddos [ , wrong .
84	6	earlier tonight онлайн-системы__onlayn-sistemy servers monitoring site registered that the nsa has not worked for at least six hours , and the site was still unavailable for some users .
84	7	earlier a spokesman for the nsa told abc news that inner secret network of the agency “ does not ” was взломана__vzlomana .
84	8	no засекреченная__zasekrechennaya information is not in danger , a spokesman said .
84	9	at least one онлайн-группа__onlayn-gruppa хакеров-активистов__khakerov-aktivistov stated that it is responsible for the failure of the website with the help of the nsa ddos-атаки__ddos-ataki .
84	10	ddos-атаки__ddos-ataki designed to explode in the target web site traffic until 't servers are overloaded and website not crashes .
84	11	hackers attack tactics are relatively simple , and not designed for penetration into the internal network of the target system .
84	12	previously , the nsa суперсекретное__supersekretnoe once received the nickname “ no such agency ” , turned out in recent months in the centre of public attention and fierce criticism after revelations about its extensive surveillance programs abroad and inside the country — all this reaction to the secret nsa files stolen from the agency and published by disenchanted former nsa employee edward сноуденом__snoudenom .
84	13	the growing controversy around the agency has meeting about that today ’ s incident was the result of determined action of hackers .


85	1	gazprom chief alexei miller said pipeline in bulgaria marks a new era in the gas sector
85	2	the beginning of the construction of the gas pipeline “ south stream in bulgaria marks the launch of one of the largest energy projects in europe , said the head of gazprom .
85	3	“ today , there was a landmark event : began construction of the bulgarian section of the south stream gas pipeline , the large-scale and important project in europe , ” said gazprom chairman alexei miller in a statement thursday .
85	4	this project is a key element of the energy security of the entire european continent .
85	5	“ south stream is meant to diversify russian export routes through europe .
85	6	a dispute over a contract between gazprom and its partners in ukraine , which is a large part of the gas intended for european russia , raises the level of risk for the usual routes , officials say .
85	7	miller said that direct connection with bulgaria , a member of the european union , means that geopolitical risks associated with transit countries removed “ forever . ”
85	8	the bulgarian “ consumers will receive gas from south stream at a reduced price , as only in 2015 , the whole project will work .
85	9	gazprom said construction should begin in other countries , situated further along the route of the pipeline by the end of the year .
85	10	the annual design capacity of the pipeline of 2.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas .


86	1	the agency rosbalt was stripped of the status of the media for foul language
86	2	31 october мосгорсуд__mosgorsud decided to void the license of the registration agency rosbalt , " writes " ribbon " .
86	3	the deprivation of status of media agency insisted roskomnadzor - for the systematic and gross violations of the law on mass media .
86	4	in the process , it has created an unpleasant precedent : the court considered it possible to close media that , in fact , in denying the right to nominate counter-arguments .
86	5	what is rosbalt
86	6	uab " " rosbalt news agency was established in st. petersburg in 2000 .
86	7	in subsequent years , the agency has opened a second head office in moscow and a number of regional offices .
86	8	the agency also has offices in the countries of the former soviet union .
86	9	since 2001 , rosbalt developed information-analytical and functioned as a federal agency .
86	10	by the mid 2000s , the agency was included in the list of the most recognizable private online media in russia .
86	11	at the same time , rosbalt has always held a rather specific niche : the nucleus of exclusive agency publications were ( and still are ) notes with reference to sources in the law enforcement agencies .
86	12	talk about the proximity of the security sectors continued throughout the existence of the agency .
86	13	along with what rosbalt had an extensive base of sources in various departments , in favor of such assumptions and implied that the project was led by natalia chaplin - the wife of viktor cherkesov .
86	14	in this leadership role in чаплиной__chaplinoy " росбалтом__rosbaltom " until the end is not clear : often it is called " " project leader .
86	15	the director general of the agency is larisa афонина__afonina , chief editor - nikolay ulyanov .
86	16	lately rosbalt 't featured in the ratings of federal media - neither on the quote , nor the audience .
86	17	in october , the agency took 25th place in the rating of russian media attendance sites according to liveinternet .
86	18	according to the data of the liveinternet , среднесуточная__srednesutochnaya audience rosbalt.ru site is about 150 thousand unique visitors ( and up to 500 thousand views ) , monthly - around three million unique visitors .
86	19	among the most popular materials over the past five months , notes about the helplessness of the kremlin in relations with ukraine , the death of the soloist " group king and jester " pogroms in the metropolitan бирюлеве__biryuleve .
86	20	the conflict " росбалта__rosbalta " with роскомнадзором__roskomnadzorom began in july 2013 , when entered into force amendments to the law on the mass media who banned journalists from foul language .
86	21	the office found the forbidden vocabulary in two published on the website of the agency arrived ( " dzhigit from krasnodar " and " pussy riot осквернили__oskvernili oil rigs " ) .
86	22	further hand describe differently .
86	23	on the basis of the roskomnadzor discovered video accused rosbalt on the gross and systematic violations of the law on mass media and turned to the courts to deprive the agency of the license .
86	24	in " росбалте__rosbalte " stated that claims departments неправомерны__nepravomerny : first , the videos were not редакционными__redaktsionnymi materials , secondly , foul words in them were masked , and thirdly , warnings immediately after the videos were removed from the site .
86	25	the agency appealed roscomnadzor court claims in the world - and when 22 october 2013 мосгорсуд__mosgorsud took action roscomnadzor , consideration of these complaints still continued .
86	26	but already the world number 25 , the judge ruled in favor of 't " росбалта__rosbalta " : chief editor nicholas ulyanov was found guilty of violating the code of administrative offences and was fined 20 thousand rubles - 10 thousand for each video .
86	27	obviously , this is the outcome of the hearing and предрешило__predreshilo мосгорсуде__mosgorsude - if refuse from the idea that the outcome would be a foregone conclusion even earlier .
86	28	on october 31 , the court decided to admit the invalid certificate of registration " росбалта__rosbalta " , effectively blocking media agency status .
86	29	this is not to say that rosbalt during this confrontation remained alone .
86	30	the agency supported the state duma deputies ( a statement in the name of the head of roscomnadzor alexandra жарова__zharova signed on 10 october 26 deputies ; the document was filed on the initiative of the communist party ) .
86	31	about the closure of publications that claimed the head of the russian journalists union vsevolod bogdanov , president of the moscow journalists union pavel gusev and head of the presidential council on human rights , mikhail fedotov .
86	32	moreover , according to bogdanova , leadership roscomnadzor even gave him any guarantees that up to revocation of the license deal is not reached .
86	33	the trial of " росбалтом__rosbaltom " showed : under whose jurisdiction it is safer to be a means of mass media in russia today is the big question .


87	1	gene speech was stimulator education synapses
87	2	scientists from johns hopkins university and mount sinai hospital , new york medical school found the protein , thanks to which " gene speech " foxp2 carries out its function by stimulating the formation of new connections between neurons .
87	3	the study published in the journal science , on the website you can read his summary .
87	4	foxp2 gene is the first known gene function , which is directly associated with speech .
87	5	to establish his role was in 2001 , thanks to the discovery of a family from several people who could not utter the words correctly and sometimes even themselves do not understand each other .
87	6	researchers found that family members have been disrupted gene foxp2 , but how he performs its function was not known .
87	7	in the new study , the biologists have shown that at least some of its functions as foxp2 performs stimulator formation of new synapses in the brain associated with formation of speech .
87	8	he does this by another gene , srpx2 .
87	9	the latest was discovered in the search for the factors that encourage the formation of synapses .
87	10	srpx2 was one of 10 such genes , the authors found , while only in his activism вияет__viyaet foxp2 .
87	11	what really srpx2 affects вокализацию__vokalizatsiyu , scientists confirmed in experiment on мышатах__myshatakh .
87	12	when the animal gene activity was artificially reduced , the less they cried at the separation from the mother .
87	13	if the activity of a gene by rebuilding , recovering and frequency of the sounds .
87	14	previously the mice also was shown a link with the вокализацией__vokalizatsiey foxp2 .
87	15	the animals , which introduced a copy of the human gene пищали__pishchali actively and at a lower frequency than normal mice .
87	16	until now , however , scientists do not know whether foxp2 is work and , accordingly , state-steered them with srpx2 " " purely mechanical properties of education sounds or thinner processes .


88	1	ponomarev left " fair russia "
88	2	state duma deputy from just russia party " " , a member of its offices in novosibirsk ilya ponomarev has submitted an application to withdraw from the political organization .
88	3	as she said , a statement he filed in novosibirsk regional branch of the party .
88	4	according to the charter , it automatically means that ponomarev left ranks " справедроссов__spravedrossov " .
88	5	we are sitting and drinking tea ...
88	6	“ for some reason , many people want to see a picture of " ilya ponomarev puts on the table партбилет__partbilet " , but this is nothing so epochal , " mp commented on his decision .
88	7	ponomarev noted that maintains good relations with the regional office " " sr .
88	8	meanwhile , the mandate from the state duma deputy ilya ponomarev , does not intend to give up .
88	9	he explained that , despite leaving the party , he remains a member of the factions and by law cannot emerge from it .
88	10	ilya ponomarev messages about their intention to leave the party “ fair russia ” appeared on october 30 .
88	11	it was reported that together with him from slovakia " " dmitry gudkov , rolling and valery zubov , but the latter soon refuted this information .


89	1	want to luminous in the dark ice cream ?
89	2	the british businessman has created a first in the world of glowing in the dark jellyfish ice cream using .
89	3	charlie francis used fluorescent properties of marine animal , to develop a light meal .
89	4	he came to this idea after reading an article about the scientific медузах__meduzakh , and convinced the scholars in china chemically to recreate the glowing protein .
89	5	ice cream reacts with the language of one who eats it , increasing the ph level in the white of the eye and causing it to glow .
89	6	chris says that since ice cream begins to glow when the mouth reacts to heat , it means that the more you лижете__lizhete , the more it becomes .
89	7	charlie , the founder of a company producing ice cream " лизни__lizni i tasty " , says : “ it is an incredible thing , but still at the initial stage , if we talk about production , so for £ 200 , you get about 2 grams of substance . ”
89	8	a protein that we use in мороженом__morozhenom , reacts with your tongue with a neutral ph .
89	9	however , when your mouth warm up the protein , it will raise the ph level and ice cream will start to glow .
89	10	we tested it in the last few months , and it seemed that the ideal would be to introduce him to halloween , because it creates such a luminous effect .
89	11	it is , perhaps , the most expensive ice creams from those that i did , because the jellyfish luminescence in four times more expensive than gold .
89	12	so every ball cost me about £ 140 .
89	13	but it is very pleasant to the taste .
89	14	pilot charlie company , based in bristol , is famous for its unusual flavours , including beer , cheese , beef and taste of mosaic gold .
89	15	but his next creation should be even more ambitious .
89	16	he said : “ i really want to develop invisible ice cream . ”
89	17	it is by definition impossible because of refractive errors caused by ice crystals , which is ice cream , but i think we will find a way to do it .
89	18	ice cream uses fluorescent properties of jellyfish , синтезированные__sintezirovannye chinese scholars


90	1	the gm recall a number of new pickups in the united states to adjust seats backs
90	2	general motors co recall almost 19 thousand brand new pickups chevrolet silverado and gmc sierra models of 2014 to avoid problems with manual adjustment of seat backs , in accordance with the friday notice from regulators in the united states in the field of motor vehicle safety .
90	3	on some of the front seats of pickups may have a defect in the mechanism of backs .
90	4	as a result of the backs of the seats do not meet the federal motor vehicle safety standards for подголовникам__podgolovnikam .
90	5	“ when hitting a car in the rear head restraint may not properly to protect the driver and passengers , increasing the risk of injury , ” said in a posted on the web site of the national highway traffic safety administration notice .
90	6	отзываемые__otzyvaemye models were made in the period from 1 august to 10 september .
90	7	the release of the gm pickups began in june and represents the most important launch vehicle in serial production for the american car maker since its restructuring through bankruptcy in 2009 .
90	8	gm said owners of pickups about дефекте__defekte in the first half of october .
90	9	the national highway traffic safety administration could not consider notifying owners in connection with 16-дневным__16-dnevnym cessation of government , which cut car sales growth in october .
90	10	sales of the silverado and sierra pickups , which were updated for 2014 model range , have increased by about 20 percent in the first 10 months of this year , gm announced on friday .
90	11	in october , gm has sold 42 660 silverado and sierra pickups 16 503 пикапa__pikapa .
90	12	gm shares on the new york stock exchange on friday afternoon rose 1.4 percent to $ 37,47 mark .


91	1	in the area of the tretyakov gallery opened pedestrian zone
91	2	in moscow , there was a new pedestrian zone .
91	3	it is located in the tretyakov gallery and takes part in two kilometers from metro " novokuznetskaya " to swamp the area .
91	4	all over the street floor lamps , honeycreeper , benches , ballot boxes and toilets , removed deaf fences and illegal advertising .
91	5	besides климентовского__klimentovskogo and лаврушинского__lavrushinskogo alleyways , which already were pedestrian for cars closed five streets - ordynsky impasse , large and small толмачевский__tolmachevskiy alleyways , кадашевскую__kadashevskuyu promenade and swamp the area .
91	6	traffic on the streets and маросейка__maroseyka petrovka is not limited .
91	7	on the street , from the lobby пятницкой__pyatnitskoy station " novokuznetskaya " to климентовского__klimentovskogo limbo lane conditions for pedestrians created without removing the movement and cutting road , transmits newsmsk.com.
91	8	within the pedestrian zone were the tretyakov gallery , the temple of the holy martyr pope clement , museums , libraries , monuments and other tourist attractions .
91	9	earlier , a pedestrian thoroughfare became tver , street stoleshnikov lane and kuznetsky most .
91	10	most дмитровку__dmitrovku where pedestrian zone opened in early september , decided to close for cars on weekends and holidays .


92	1	fans " " zenith on the official site of the club admitted экс-капитана__eks-kapitana of russian national team the best player last month .
92	2	in october , arshavin took part in two matches of the uefa champions league group stage , three meetings of the championship of russia and in кубковом__kubkovom match .
92	3	2 on his account transfer target .
92	4	second place at the end of the month , slashed голкиперу__golkiperu yuriy лодыгину__lodyginu становившемуся__stanovivshemusya the best player of august and september .
92	5	the third position is striker hulk .
92	6	on the account of two goals scored and three transfer target .
92	7	we remind that arshavin returned to zenit since this summer .


93	1	the series premiere movies " арт-мейнстрим__art-meynstrim " will take place in moscow
93	2	a series of movies " арт-мейнстрим__art-meynstrim " , where viewers can see one russian and four foreign film for several days before their release in the car , will take place at the cinema " roland " from 1 to 5 november , reports ria novosti with a reference to the organizers of the project .
93	3	the program opens " арт-мейнстрима__art-meynstrima " french comedy director and actress реим__reim керичи__kerichi " paris " at any cost .
93	4	this is the story of a working model in the french capital itself maillet ( керичи__kerichi ) , which because of problems with a visa to the country - in morocco .
93	5	in addition to the film керичи__kerichi viewers also will show a new picture of the famous south korean filmmaker kim ki doukas " мебиус__mebius " мелодраматичный__melodramatichnyy байопик__bayopik oliver хиршбигеля__khirshbigelya " diana : a love story ” ( diana ) , with naomi watts in the leading role and the film past the may cannes film festival " life adele " абделатифа__abdelatifa кешиша__keshisha .
93	6	the only russian participant " арт-мейнстрима__art-meynstrima " will be won at the festival " kinotavr " film alexander велединского__veledinskogo " geographer globe propyl " based on the same novel alexey ivanov .
93	7	the lead role - the charismatic victor неудачник-учителя__neudachnik-uchitelya служкина__sluzhkina - in the film played konstantin хабенский__khabenskiy , whose work also was awarded the prize " кинотавра__kinotavra " .


94	1	snowden ready to “ cooperate ” with germany on the issue of relating intelligence
94	2	edward snowden , the us intelligence разоблачитель__razoblachitel , said he is ready to go to berlin to give a statement to the german parliament , if the us national security agency and its director keith alexander will not answer questions about its activities .
94	3	german mp ханс-кристиан__khans-kristian штрёбеле__shtryobele on thursday met with mr. сноуденом__snoudenom in russia where he has been granted asylum to discuss him giving testimony in germany .
94	4	in a letter from mr сноудена__snoudena , which he presented to the media in berlin on friday , said : “ although the outcome of my effort was clearly positive , my government continues to treat dissent as treason and seeks to criminalize political statements are not criminal charges , which gives it no protection . ”
94	5	but speaking the truth is not a crime .
94	6	in the letter , mr. snowden said that he believes that the support of the international community can convince the us government to abandon criminal charges against him .
94	7	the charges against the ministry of justice , the us include espionage and theft of state property .
94	8	hans-peter friedrich , the german interior minister , told zeit online : “ if mr. snowden is ready to talk with german officials , we will find ways to make it possible . ”
94	9	relations between the united states and germany have become strained after claims that the nsa прослушивало__proslushivalo phone of chancellor angela merkel .
94	10	thomas opperman , mp , who chairs the parliamentary group , курирующую__kuriruyushchuyu разведслужбу__razvedsluzhbu , said that if there is a possibility to listen to mr. сноудена__snoudena as witness , “ not exposing its dangers and not breaking relations with the united states fully ” , it must be used .
94	11	mr штрёбеле__shtryobele , a member of parliament from the green party of germany , published his photo with mr. сноуденом__snoudenom in his twitter feed .
94	12	during a visit to russia , he was accompanied by two german journalists .
94	13	mr штрёбеле__shtryobele said that , according to the lawyer of former nsa контрактника__kontraktnika , mr. snowden could return to russia if he left .
94	14	if mr. snowden gave testimony in germany , he needed would be a guarantee that he will be there “ in security , ” said the mp .
94	15	mr snowden said in his letter that he faced “ tough and steady ” campaign of persecution that forced him to leave his house .
94	16	however , he said that he was “ encouraged by the global response to his political statements . ”
94	17	citizens throughout the world , as well as senior officials — including the united states — have found exposé of unregulated system of ubiquitous surveillance useful to society .
94	18	the letter contains the proposal to cooperate with german authorities , “ when the difficulties of this humanitarian situation have been resolved . ”


95	1	foreign workers on 457 visas подкласса__podklassa can be tested on “ authenticity . ”
95	2	the test of “ authenticity ” for foreign workers on 457 visas class is pending government , because it means the extension of repressive measures .
95	3	this test , in case of its adoption , will be applied according to criteria aimed at preventing the use of the class 457 visas to fill unskilled positions or as loopholes to move the family and friends in australia .
95	4	the document presented by the government for discussion , was published today , while the former mp лейбористский__leyboristskiy m. mcq attacked government rhetoric about foreign workers , saying that it might offend neighbors australia .
95	5	“ the type of loud statements " foreigners — at the end of the queue ” and “ first work австралийцам__avstraliytsam " represent a very nasty back to a time when unions demanded a protected labour market , ” she said “ institute of australia — india today . ”
95	6	historically , this meant that it was white labour needed to protect - and if some in the region saw echoes of that historic artifact i wouldn ’ t be surprised .
95	7	in the submitted for discussion paper sets out 12 measures that had previously been considered former immigration minister chris боуэном__bouenom .
95	8	immigration minister brendan o 'коннор__'konnor , who was yesterday in sri lanka , where he meets with officials about the smuggling of people , already has five of the recommended changes , while the others are under consideration .
95	9	if the criteria of “ authenticity ” , to be accepted by the applicant for a visa can be explored on the subject , “ is a genuine candidate at a time when the candidate is a relative or close acquaintance the owner or person having the attitude towards financing the company . ”
95	10	the companies also may be asked to report on the number of 457 visa holders подкласса__podklassa since before the enterprise , намеревавшиеся__namerevavshiesya sponsor a small number of employees , then took on the job of hundreds .
95	11	meanwhile , 35 шри-ланкиец__shri-lankiets asylum seeker has died , reportedly of a heart attack soon after arriving by boat with refugees at christmas island this week .
95	12	the nine-year operational son killed by grief this man accompanied him on the way to australia , and since the death of his father on wednesday it supports a cousin , who was also on board .
95	13	australian authorities hastily sent a man to the hospital christmas island , where he died .


96	1	" " colorado coach patrick roy , explaining the decision to release the goalkeeper point-blank варламова__varlamova seeds from the first minutes of the match with пятничном__pyatnichnom " далласом__dallasom " , expressed confidence that recent night behind bars 't поколебала__pokolebala his confidence in россиянине__rossiyanine , reports from dallas собкор__sobkor " se " natalia шмелева__shmeleva .
96	2	and then we wait , roy said after the morning раскатки__raskatki " " lavin .
96	3	of course , what has us all concerned , but we are confident in it , and feel that it will be useful for him to leave today on the ice .
96	4	we want that he came out on the ice and showed their usual level .
96	5	that is , you are completely confident that the situation had not affected кондициях__konditsiyakh goalkeeper ?
96	6	here today and we will see .
96	7	no doubt our players will support what varley will help him protect the gate as it was in previous games this season .
96	8	most importantly , no one in the team is not going to make any conclusions until tackles in this situation , not the court .


97	1	баумгертнер__baumgertner nominated to the board of directors of " " vedomosti report
97	2	the board of directors of jsc uralkali " proposed candidates arrested in minsk general director vladislav баумгертнера__baumgertnera in new members of the board , according to the website of the russian company .
97	3	бамугертнер__bamugertner entered the list of 11 people , denominated in a new board of directors .
97	4	this list was prepared to внеочередному__vneocherednomu shareholders meeting on 29 november , which will be determined by the board of directors by voting .
97	5	currently баумгертнер__baumgertner is under house arrest in minsk .
97	6	while in detention in august this year he had been charged with abuse of official powers .
97	7	later , however , the president of belarus alexander lukashenko said at the press conference that the embezzlement charges баумгертнеру__baumgertneru переквалифицированы__perekvalifitsirovany " " .


98	1	the eu is preparing measures to support ukraine in case of economic pressure russia
98	2	the european union has a contingency plan to ensure ukraine gas , and also to reach an agreement with the imf about an emergency loan , if russia would take any action in response to the possible signing of the association agreement between the eu and ukraine on the vilnius summit .
98	3	negotiations are under way with the imf , but stand-by loan from another eu official directly involved in the negotiations , added that their goal is the conclusion of the agreement in the near future .
98	4	in addition to the potential loan from the imf , ukraine can get 610 million euros from the european union itself .
98	5	analysts surveyed by reuters , doubt that ukraine and the imf are able to overcome long-standing disagreements about funding conditions .
98	6	do not believe in the possibility of reform necessary to get help , and international rating agency s &amp; p , понизившее__ponizivshee friday ukraine ’ s sovereign rating by one notch , to " в-__v- " with " in " .
98	7	however , eu officials say the imf can show flexibility in terms of lending , taking into account the circumstances of ukraine .
98	8	in addition to the plan of financial support for the country , the eu has a fallback option to provide ukraine with gas , the majority of whom supply now comes from russia .
98	9	perhaps this will be the gas from the nord stream " " or reverse from slovakia .
98	10	the latter , according to officials , as is possible and acceptable manner in the event russia " isolates " ukraine .
98	11	analysts believe that such a way to reverse supplies to ukraine could be used only in a few weeks , and will likely lead to lower supplies in other regions .
98	12	" between eu countries and the ukrainians are held talks about how to create favourable conditions to ukraine could import gas from other sources , not from russia , or from the same source , but on other routes , " reuters source added .


99	1	dinamo fans will arrange for free bus in khimki to match with " томью__tomyu "
99	2	dinamo fans can get in khimki in the 15th round against рфпл__rfpl " tomi " free commuter train .
99	3	according to the official site of the club , on the match dynamo " tom " , which will take place on october 2 at the stadium rodina in khimki , a moscow club is free of charge for our fans an electric train .
99	4	she will travel from the leningrad station in 14.38 .
99	5	after the match electric train takes fans back to moscow - she will travel from the khimki " " in 18.53 .
99	6	let us remind that the match dynamo " tom " will begin on november 2 , at 4 p.m. moscow time .
99	7	sovsport.ru will lead his text translation .


100	1	in the united states mobile can be used during takeoff and landing aircraft
100	2	the new rules for the safe use of mobile devices during takeoff and landing the airplane approved in the united states , reports bbc телекорпорация__telekorporatsiya .
100	3	as expected , american airline passengers be allowed to use smartphones , and as for the tablets throughout the flight , the new rules will be launched by the end of 2013 .
100	4	nevertheless , the internet connection to receive and send e-mail will be banned during flights at altitudes below 3 kilometers .
100	5	because of the danger of potential interference with planes governing radio devices , cellular voice communications will continue under the prohibitions .
100	6	thus , passengers with flights will be allowed to read electronic books , play games on планшетах__planshetakh and other gadgets and watch the video for domestic and international flights .
100	7	before the rules are adopted , airlines will be obliged to check the safety of the use of electronic devices during the flight .
100	8	in addition , airlines will need to convince the federal aviation administration that they will be able to cope with the possible impact of mobile devices on planes and aircraft management .
100	9	according to the source , on the example of the united states , in britain may also be reviewed current norms of electronic devices in flights .


101	1	выбежавший__vybezhavshiy on the field in the match " " shinnik stadium
101	2	became known some details about the identity of the fan , выбежавшего__vybezhavshego on the field during the match 1 / 16 of the russian cup final between yaroslavl " шинником__shinnikom " and spartak moscow .
101	3	according to the head of the rfu council 's artur grigoryants , referring to the data of the ministry of internal affairs , this is a болельщик__bolelshchik москвичом__moskvichom .
101	4	he is currently detained .
101	5	besides " grigoryants told about how fan managed to break through on the field : " revealed that this , call it the audience walked to the ambulance escorted by two spectators , citing problems with the heart .
101	6	he went to the emergency room is the us confirmed emergency physician .
101	7	and then he shoved two attendants and ran to the field .
101	8	he escaped from the corner of eastern and southern stands at the corner of east and north tribune .
101	9	he ran through the field .
101	10	for this match stewards .
101	11	prior to the entry into force of the law on sports action zone 's stewards - police cannot interfere in what on the field .
101	12	he came to the podium , перелез__perelez through eastern podium .
101	13	and in this time of unrest began on the east and the grandstand on the cross-country track " , said the head of the council 's .
101	14	recall that the council 's spartak moscow will be without spectators coming matches the 15th round of the championship of russia against " locomotive " and " " zenith , but also pays a fine in the amount of 600 rubles .


102	1	former wife love holidaying with actor andrew чадовым__chadovym
102	2	the former footballer civil wife from " zenith " andrew love julia барановская__baranovskaya spends holiday with actor andrew чадовым__chadovym .
102	3	julia holidaying in italy in the company of actress anastasia задорожной__zadorozhnoy , her groom - figure skater sergei славнова__slavnova and actor andrew чадова__chadova .
102	4	images from the pairs of joint walks published in 11 anastasia задорожной__zadorozhnoy .
102	5	this is not the first joint photo by andrey and yulia .
102	6	5 october задорожная__zadorozhnaya published a picture in which the pair embracing stands on the shore of the gulf of finland in komarovo .
102	7	in the middle of october after " zenith " andrey arshavin admitted that lives separately from their civil wife yulia .
102	8	remember julia барановская__baranovskaya and andrey arshavin were together since 2003 , they have three children .
102	9	recently it became known that arshavin meets alice экс-моделью__eks-modelyu казминой__kazminoy .
102	10	the new girlfriend of love was married to the top manager of the corporation .


103	1	the president of russia has created a separate ministry of construction and housing
103	2	russian president vladimir putin has created a new ministry of construction and housing and utilities курирующее__kuriruyushchee questions and offered to lead his экс-губернатору__eks-gubernatoru ivanovo region mikhail menu in the course of personal meetings .
103	3	the president met with mikhail menem in residence in ново-огарево__novo-ogarevo and men refused to lead the new agency .
103	4	russian presidential spokesman dmitry peskov explained that all the functions relating to the construction and housing come into a new ministry of the regional .
103	5	michael lesser is the son of the famous orthodox priest , protopriest alexander me , graduated from the moscow institute of petrochemistry name of gubkin .
103	6	since 1995 , began his political career , he was elected in the moscow oblast duma from сергиево-посадского__sergievo-posadskogo district , was a deputy of the state duma , the first deputy prime minister of the government of the moscow region , deputy prime minister of the government of moscow .
103	7	since 2005 , on october 16 , 2013 , mikhail men was governor of ivanovo region .


104	1	americans подслушивали__podslushivali japanese high-ranking officials
104	2	on friday , november 1 , one of the representatives of the american special forces , who preferred not to disclose his name , said that states подслушивали__podslushivali telephone conversations of senior officials of japan .
104	3	this person confirmed that in the land of the rising sun , there are several points intended for listening .
104	4	at the same time , he noted that the united states , the united kingdom , australia , canada , new zealand did not lead intelligence activity against each other .
104	5	according to him , as it was during the second world war , when these countries were allies .
104	6	but japan , like germany , despite alliances with the americans in the postwar period , are objects for intelligence-gathering activities , nhk television reported .
104	7	officially , neither of the parties has not commented on that information .
104	8	recall news about u.s. intelligence surveillance for the chancellor of the federal republic of germany , emerged last week .
104	9	according to the german journalists , the nsa could listen to telephone merkel over the past ten years .
104	10	the chancellor herself , according to some estimates , embrace the news about their listening action is very painful .
104	11	she said that the allies , which , in her opinion , are the federal republic of germany and the united states for decades , like watching the head of government is unacceptable .
104	12	meanwhile , edward snowden said that he was ready to share details about listening action calls of angela merkel and the german prosecutors .
104	13	german specially arrived in moscow to meet with former cia officer .


105	1	controversial video came to the police
105	2	the head of toronto , rob ford , known for its скандальными__skandalnymi and downright reckless escapades , got on smoking крэка__kreka .
105	3	police said the canadian city that has an available and ready to begin the investigation against him .
105	4	he said he would not leave his post , according to cnn .
105	5	the information that the authorities have evidence of drug use , rob ford appeared on the website of the toronto police .
105	6	the head of the local police bill blair held a press conference to mark the occasion .
105	7	sheriff said that is not authorized to share with the public information staff , but it guarantees for their existence .
105	8	according to blair , компрометирующее__komprometiruyushchee rob ford video was discovered during an anti-drug raid conducted by the guardian of order in the summer of 2013 .
105	9	earlier about the existence of this video already wrote the canadian press , but until recently there was no confirmation .
105	10	the mayor himself no comments on this matter does not .
105	11	he said only that the guiltless and resign is not going to leave .
105	12	police discovered a videotape is one of the evidence in the case of ford 35-летнего__35-letnego friend alexander lisi , accused of trading lighter drugs , extortion , receipt of illicit income and criminal conspiracy .
105	13	lisi sometimes acted as driver rob ford .
105	14	city residents have long demanded the resignation of the mayor .
105	15	he repeatedly fought with journalists , appeared in public in the form of drunkenly , allowed himself a racist and сексистские__seksistskie enunciation .


106	1	diana арбенина__arbenina celebrated halloween with his children
106	2	diana арбенина__arbenina 't hides what a pleasure she gets from the education of their children .
106	3	despite the fact that it is now particularly арбенина__arbenina much time gives creative and social activities , she still finds the opportunity to fiddle with мартой__martoy and артемом__artemom , not only spends time on their training , but also entertaining as it can .
106	4	twice in the past week , diana отчиталась__otchitalas before his fans about their pedagogical talent .
106	5	first , she posted to facebook a photo , which shows how it teaches children to read .
106	6	but yesterday побаловала__pobalovala fans , showing how нарядила__naryadila artem and march on halloween .
106	7	ready to ride on the water ! our first halloween " - so called diana photo of their children , облаченных__oblachennykh in festive costumes .
106	8	no wonder that , because they , like any other russian boys and girls , are relevant to this holiday , as were born in america .


107	1	the 6.6 magnitude earthquake occurred on thursday , october 31 , in the area of the town of coquimbo region in central chile , reports reuters .
107	2	the center of the earthquake was located in the ocean at a depth of 10.7 kilometres and at a distance of 54 kilometres south-west of the city , and on the web site of the united states geological survey ( usgs ) .
107	3	shoves were fixed at 20 : 03 p.m. local time ( 3 : 03 on 1 november in moscow ) .
107	4	about the victims or destruction caused by the jolts of underground until nothing is reported .
107	5	to remind , chile is in one of the most сейсмоактивных__seysmoaktivnykh areas of earth however , earthquakes of varying strength there is not uncommon .
107	6	one of the most serious occured in 2010 .
107	7	then the magnitude 8.8 earthquake and tsunami caused them led to death in chile , more than 550 people and destroying 220,000 buildings .
107	8	in addition , happened in chile , the most powerful earthquake in modern history : in 1960 there recorded a magnitude 9.5 .
107	9	as a result of the natural disaster killed more than five thousand people .


108	1	jsc " ростоваэроинвест__rostovaeroinvest " acknowledged that german company assmann planen + beraten won a tender for choosing генпроектировщика__genproektirovshchika object .
108	2	the amount of the contract in " ростоваэроинвесте__rostovaeroinveste " 't reveal .
108	3	according to the press-service of jsc participated in the competition nine russian and foreign companies , according to the terms of the tender project should be prepared and sent to госэкспертизу__gosekspertizu in spring 2014 .
108	4	the winner will have to design a new passenger terminal of the airport , as well as roads and infrastructure , internal elements of the improvement of the airport complex .
108	5	at the first stage of the construction of the inner area of the terminal will be 50 thousand square meters in the future may increase it .
108	6	according to information " ростоваэроинвеста__rostovaeroinvesta " , the project documentation will be considered the prospects of the development of the airport complex : by 2025 the terminal to handle about 5 million passengers , and by 2035 - 6 million passengers .
108	7	by the time of summing up the results of the tender was defined architectural concept of the airport terminal " " south , which was developed by the british company twelve architects .
108	8	the building project of the main terminal embodies the idea of air bridge between ростовом-на-дону__rostovom-na-donu and other cities of the world .
108	9	assmann planen + beraten has experience implementing large projects , the company проектировала__proektirovala terminals c and e " sheremetyevo international airport and a new airport terminal at the international airport of " knevichi " in vladivostok .
108	10	the international airport complex " southern " аксайском__aksayskom will be built in the district of rostov region and will replace the current rostov ­ ) airport , which will be closed and , in the long term , is integrated into the urban sprawl .
108	11	in the beginning of the construction of the terminal is scheduled for 2014 , putting all objects - by 2017 .


109	1	italian workers with experience give way to the young
109	2	italian unemployment is breaking records .
109	3	data published on wednesday showed that without work now 12.5 % of the inhabitants of the country .
109	4	the case was not so bad since the second world war .
109	5	among the young this number is higher several times .
109	6	4 % of residents aged 15 to 24 years of age do not have employment .
109	7	in the opinion of the italian authorities , one of the solutions to this problem - the early retirement of older workers .
109	8	such экперимент__ekperiment already holds the largest energy company in the country , and adopted laws allow regional authorities to provide part of any pension for workers with the experience .
109	9	however , on the other hand , italy is a common problem for europe ’ s ageing population .
109	10	and economists are not convinced that premature affair with file rotation of personnel will redeem themselves .


110	1	syria destroyed equipment for химоружия__khimoruzhiya
110	2	syria destroyed all the declared facilities for production of chemical weapons , recognized by the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons .
110	3	this first stage of disarmament damascus finished the day before the deadline .
110	4	until 1 november syria was to destroy the manufacturing and other auxiliary objects intended for combat training in the use of toxic substances , reports the bbc .
110	5	the destruction of the stockpile of toxic substances or their chemical components should be completed by the middle of 2014 .
110	6	according to the representative of the opcw , currently toxic substances are in опечатанных__opechatannykh repositories .
110	7	international inspectors went to syria after on the outskirts of damascus on 21 august in the chemical attack were killed , according to the united states , more than 1,400 people .
110	8	the main task of the inspectors was not lose time to not allow syrian authorities to produce more химоружия__khimoruzhiya - and destroy infrastructure equipment for mixing chemicals and munitions .
110	9	behind these manufacturing facilities will now be watching carefully to prevent their repair .
110	10	the next milestone is the middle of november : by this time the opcw and syria must agree to a detailed plan of destruction of existing stocks of toxic substances .
110	11	a lot of questions here .
110	12	where will they be removed ?
110	13	who will provide the equipment for this ?
110	14	all syrian statements will be carefully checked by western разведслужбами__razvedsluzhbami .
110	15	they readily 'll inspectors new objects to test if there are grounds to suspect that damascus is not fully candid .
110	16	the united states believed that the shelling was held regular troops .
110	17	syria and russia insist that this was the work of the syrian rebels .
110	18	the world community has demanded from the syrian leadership is in accordance with the agreement reached by mediated by russia , is to destroy or lead in inoperable all capacity for the production of shells , toxic gases and liquids and shells for filling in these substances .
110	19	now , when this phase passed , the next step must be to destroy existing the syrian army химоружия__khimoruzhiya .
110	20	it is assumed that this could be arsenal more than 1,000 tons of toxic substances кожно-нарывного__kozhno-naryvnogo нервно-паралитических__nervno-paraliticheskikh , mustard gas and other banned chemicals stored in several dozen different places .
110	21	for its destruction is necessary to the opcw and the syrian authorities for the agreed timetable of action - it is two weeks .
110	22	the head of the opcw field operations jerry smith told the bbc that his inspectors " personally watched the destruction of the equipment .
110	23	“ now they have no opportunity to conduct further production or mixing chemical weapons , ” he said .
110	24	in the statement , the opcw said its inspectors visited 21 of the 23 sites in syria and convinced us factories on manufacture of shells and toxic substances , either destroyed or are in order .
110	25	the remaining two objects too dangerous to carry out an inspection , the document says , but the equipment was carried out and inspected by specialists of the opcw .
110	26	according to smith , the process of destruction of infrastructure for the production was especially химоружия__khimoruzhiya " непрост__neprost " as work had in the ongoing conflict .
110	27	in early october , the opcw was awarded the nobel peace prize , however , according to smith , it is time to celebrate the inspectors have not yet been found - they were too busy with work .


111	1	george кереван__kerevan : the gap with europe gives шотландцам__shotlandtsam choice
111	2	another day , another страшилка__strashilka on independence .
111	3	this time , we warn that an independent scotland should join the european free movement area as a condition of eu membership .
111	4	it 's turn stories about passport control in бервике__bervike and the border with barbed wire along адрианова__adrianova shaft .
111	5	true , the newspaper strathclyde pointed to possible economic benefits from the more liberal movements in the rest of europe , though — predictably — not that it has appeared in headlines .
111	6	nobody 't also pointed out that the eu member states spend a lot of time to turn their formal rules as it is convenient .
111	7	because scotland is not included in the schengen area , the continued non-compliance with the requirements will become cheap concession to brussels in return for what he truly wanted from the scots .
111	8	so this is not the story one worthy of attention .
111	9	and so old that she has become a fossil : i first heard “ duck ” about what “ independence means passport control , ” at least 40 years ago .
111	10	and yet there is an interesting point , lost when пересказе__pereskaze ancient tales .
111	11	why does an independent scotland should comply with orders in europe ?
111	12	why change the yoke of london on the yoke of brussels , especially now ?
111	13	here is a real european news : the great post-war plan to unite europe finally stalled .
111	14	with еврокризисом__evrokrizisom project “ europe ” is officially dead .
111	15	across the european union the party opposed the eu or for the abolition of the euro as a single currency , gaining strength .
111	16	even in germany , “ euro-skeptics party alternative for germany , founded only this year — appeared from nowhere and won nearly five million votes in the september federal election , thus displacing essentially “ free democrats ” ( the equivalent of “ our ” ) liberal democrats , from the bundestag .
111	17	there was always the internal opposition to the plan to create a federal europe .
111	18	nevertheless , the current economic crisis has become a turning point .
111	19	austerity imposed by berlin and the european central bank , and the chains imposed on national economies through the preservation of the common currency have led many people to believe that the project “ europe ” has gone too far .
111	20	the euro crisis is connected with the fact that national governments are working with excessive budget deficits — this was true only for greece .
111	21	in fact евросистема__evrosistema blocked its members on favorable exchange rates , for german exporters , is that german politicians and want to preserve .
111	22	without the possibility of devaluation of the national currency in southern europe is at a disadvantage in advance of production capacities in comparison with germany .
111	23	the only means of спасительное__spasitelnoe — to cut wages and government spending that actively supported by berlin .
111	24	for the current budget problems and exchange is a much deeper problem of the productive capacities of europe .
111	25	as a result of measures to “ green ” energy , embedded brussels subsidies — a cipher for french and german energy companies at the expense of consumers , european industry pays twice as much for electricity , and four times more for gas than in the united states .
111	26	this парализующе__paralizuyushche adverse price terms , as we have already seen in грейнджмуте__greyndzhmute .
111	27	no freezing wages in the world does not stop overwhelming victory of cheap shale gas in the united states over european petrochemical industry .
111	28	as a result of the rebellion is brewing , especially in france , once the most ярой__yaroy стороннице__storonnitse eu .
111	29	after the war , the french political elite saw the eu as a way to control germany and put paris on one level with washington .
111	30	but berlin no longer needed in paris as a means of obtaining political legitimacy , and has already imposed its own economic policy of europe , leaving the destroyed the economy of france in distress .
111	31	the result — right , acting against the eu party marine le pen of the national front ” just won the decisive run-off election by discarding the ruling party of socialists into third place .
111	32	“ the front line ” is now the most popular party in france , with 24 percent of the vote — a timely warning the british that it would not proceed from the assumption that the split among the right effect automatically in favor of the left .
111	33	what makes le pen with their newly inherited popularity among french white working class ?
111	34	she wants to use the elections to the eu in the next year to create a bloc in the european parliament against the eu and against the single currency .
111	35	if — and it is very likely — opposed to eu parties will receive support in this election , this unit will be able for the first time to take a dominant position in the european parliament .
111	36	here is my opinion : soon the growing sentiment against the eu and against the single currency in europe will merge together to destroy the euro .
111	37	the eu will not go away , but he again becomes something of a “ vague europe ( sovereign ) nations , ” which like general de gaulle .
111	38	germany and several economies dependent on it can save the euro , but france and southern europe will restore its own currency .
111	39	i assume that britain distances himself from the project , hoping to get closer to the us .
111	40	nevertheless , the growing interest from washington to the pacific ocean indicates the likelihood that britain will be left without attention into the cold atlantic .
111	41	in what position it leaves scotland ?
111	42	we can choose to become a region ( essentially ) of england .
111	43	or we can to protect their own economic interests , which means , among other things , to send the berlin and brussels to hell in a handbasket .
111	44	i suspect that scotland can succeed in the freer european agreement provided that we will keep its currency .
111	45	cooperation with other странами-единомышленниками__stranami-edinomyshlennikami will be easier in europe нефедеральной__nefederalnoy nations .
111	46	otherwise , we should consider the possibility of a repeat of the experience of norway and preserve our economic independence .
111	47	the government of the scottish national party in scotland is — ironically — the most successful political movement in europe , and against the austerity measures , which received a majority of the votes in 2011 due to objections against cuts proposed ( and sold ) labour chancellor exchequer aleister дарлингом__darlingom and subsequently raised by the coalition of tories and liberal democrats .
111	48	scotland would be ludicrous now to vote for independence , only to accept austerity imposed by berlin and brussels .


112	1	an australian woman lodges appeal against jail term in thailand
112	2	the 21-year-old woman from sydney , приговоренная__prigovorennaya to 15 days in prison on the island of phuket for the false claim that she was attacked by a taxi driver , appealed the verdict and was released on bail .
112	3	rochelle stevie bamford was originally found guilty of 15 june пхукетским__pkhuketskim provincial court to filing a false claim after thai police reports that a local taxi driver carried out the attack on the night of sunday 10 june , while two other men held her .
112	4	but the surveillance camera records later revealed that she safely returned to their hotel after severing ties with her by her boyfriend .
112	5	police пхукетская__pkhuketskaya допрашивала__doprashivala bamford within two days before she admitted that сфабриковала__sfabrikovala this story .
112	6	before the court it contained in the local police cells .
112	7	bamford was sentenced to 15-суточному__15-sutochnomu festival in the heart of detainees general regime on the outskirts of пхукетa__pkhuketa , not in a women ’ s prison for adults .
112	8	she is the daughter of the former australian league player peter танкса__tanksa , who applied to the ministry of foreign affairs in canberra for help for his daughter .
112	9	танкс__tanks told the sydney sunday telegraph , that the whole family was “ extremely ” concerned about the well-being of his daughter and was waiting for her return to australia .
112	10	“ obviously , it was a grim time , but we hope that she will return home safely as soon as possible , ” said танкс__tanks .
112	11	bamford appealed to his sentence and was released on bail of 50,000 baht .
112	12	according to reports in australia , at the time she spends his vacation in krabi resort area in southern thailand .
112	13	находящиеся__nakhodyashchiesya in thailand , legal sources said bamford currently represents a local lawyer in phuket , but have warned that an appeal could lead to what the court will sentence her for up to two years , and make her serve time in prison for adults .
112	14	but after the recent killing of australian турагента__turagenta michelle smith in phuket , thailand , may also seek to rebuild his dissipated tourist image , which would lead to a flattering seven of those reported sentence .


113	1	in moscow opened its first boutique igor гуляева__gulyaeva
113	2	23 october took place the opening of the first flagship boutique igor гуляева__gulyaeva in moscow .
113	3	the designer igor gulyayev known to the public for its magnificent luxury products made of fur .
113	4	and now they will be able to assess more fans of fashion - in moscow finally opened his first boutique , about which designer and had a party in the style of the dolce vita .
113	5	i am sure that in russia live the most beautiful girls .
113	6	that is why i am particularly glad to see that i had opened the shop in moscow .
113	7	this is not just an office , but a place where there really is a part of me .
113	8	it was with these words , igor cut the red tape and invited everyone ... trying приглянувшиеся__priglyanuvshiesya model !


114	1	belarus and turkey are interested in developing and deepening of relations in all fields and disciplines .
114	2	this was announced to the journalists , the minister of foreign affairs of belarus vladimir makei , at a press conference following a meeting with turkish foreign minister ahmet davutoglu , according to belta has learnt .
114	3	we are very happy with the fact that our turkish counterparts and partners at all levels are interested in developing and deepening белорусско-турецких__belorussko-turetskikh relations in all fields and disciplines .
114	4	belarus , for its part , also is interested in this , so we agreed that public authorities of the two countries will provide general assistance and support entrepreneurs who set between the direct trade and economic contacts " , - said vladimir makei .
114	5	he stressed that the government of belarus will create all the necessary conditions for this and provide maximum assistance .
114	6	the minister also said that in ankara was held a regular meeting of the 8th joint белорусско-турецкой__belorussko-turetskoy intergovernmental economic commission , the conclusion of which signed the protocol .
114	7	the sides have developed a road map белорусско-турецкого__belorussko-turetskogo interaction , which , according to the head of the belarusian foreign minister , aimed at deepening the bilateral cooperation in economic and investment fields , in the areas of industrial cooperation , transport , agriculture , energy , as well as to search for new forms and directions of cooperation .
114	8	" protocol last session is executed in full , and i am convinced that the current protocol also would be executed because belarus and turkey regard each other as reliable partners , ” he said .
114	9	turkish foreign minister ahmet davutoglu , in turn , said that at talks held by the heads of foreign policy departments of the two countries have decided to continue to develop mutually beneficial cooperation and implement various projects .
114	10	trade turnover between belarus and turkey , according to the minister , it is necessary to increase and deliver it to the target of $ 1 billion .
114	11	also , turkey is an important partner in the field of investment cooperation , which we need to develop further , as in this field have unused capacity , he says .
114	12	between our countries have always been very warm relations , and we hope that in the future they will further strengthen and expand .
114	13	and also will create all the necessary conditions for trade and economic ties and for the successful work of the turkish companies on the territory of belarus and the belarusian enterprises and organizations in turkey , ” said ahmet davutoglu .


115	1	as a result of the fire at tverskaya street , four people were hurt
115	2	as a result of the fire in коллекторе__kollektore in central moscow , on tverskaya street , suffered four passers-by .
115	3	according to the interfax news agency , citing a source in the emergency services , one of the hospitalized victims .
115	4	according to the source , the passers-by who were injured during a fire in the underground задымленном__zadymlennom transition .
115	5	according to ria novosti with a reference to the head of the capital of the fuel and energy department of paul ливинского__livinskogo , currently in all the houses on tverskaya street power had been fully restored .
115	6	fire in infra-red коллекторе__kollektore near the house 15 on tverskaya street occurred on the evening of october 31 .
115	7	from hatches storm water went strong smoke , and the underground crossing , located at the shop " armenia " formed задымление__zadymlenie .
115	8	as a result of the fire were обесточены__obestocheny 11 homes on tverskaya street .
115	9	at 21 : 45 moscow time the fire was suppressed .


116	1	arctic monkeys postpone concert in glasgow due to illness alex turner
116	2	rock band arctic monkeys postponed a concert in glasgow after the singer was diagnosed with laryngitis .
116	3	this шеффилдская__sheffildskaya group was to perform at the concert venue hydro on friday .
116	4	however , the disease frontman alex turner forced them to move the show .
116	5	this statement by the group was made after it was forced to postpone the same concert at lg arena in birmingham on thursday .
116	6	in a statement on its official web site , arctic monkeys said : “ the decision to transfer the show to бирмингемской__birmingemskoy lg arena tonight and after treatment for the arctic monkeys also need to delay a show at the hydro in glasgow on friday , november 1 . ”
116	7	“ alex was diagnosed with laryngitis тёрнеру__tyorneru " " , and , unfortunately , he is not in a position to act . ”
116	8	the show at the lg arena in birmingham now will take place on november 20 , and the shows in glasgow will take place at the hydro on november 21 .
116	9	all tickets for these shows remain valid .
116	10	we want to apologize to all the owners of tickets for any inconvenience that this has caused them .
116	11	for any additional assistance , please contact the customer service department ticketing , in which you have purchased tickets .


117	1	31 october барнаульские__barnaulskie police identified two gaming areas .
117	2	the first worked in industrial area on the runway .
117	3	at the time of writing , the institution was game .
117	4	the club have counted 24 machine .
117	5	the other game club found in the leninsky district on the street anton petrova .
117	6	there were 20 slot machines .
117	7	russia in 2009 барнаулу__barnaulu reports that are administrative materials on article " illegal organization and holding of gambling games " .
117	8	equipment seized .
117	9	in the nearest future the materials on these facts will be forwarded to the courts and the head of the industrial areas of the city .


118	1	citizen would be able to conduct exams to obtain a driver ’ s license
118	2	exams for driver ’ s licenses will be able to make private companies , with their own компьютеризованным__kompyuterizovannym автодромом__avtodromom .
118	3	kommersant writes about this with reference to the draft resolution of the government " on admission to manage vehicles " .
118	4	according to the newspaper , is currently in russia only about 30 such автодромов__avtodromov .
118	5	it is assumed that such privileged disciples " " автошкол__avtoshkol will credit the results of internal testing .
118	6	while госавтоинспекция__gosavtoinspektsiya every six months , will be monitoring the passing exams .
118	7	if it indicates that more than 30 % of exams on the theory and more than 20 % of pupils do not pass the first time , this school will be deprived of privileges for six months .
118	8	technical requirements for автодромам__avtodromam contained in the draft resolution of the government shall come into force on november 5 , 2014 .
118	9	the project also includes requirements to learn driving двухколесной__dvukhkolesnoy technique .
118	10	from january 1 , 2015 , the owners of motorcycles to obtain rights category and will have to take an exam in conditions of urban traffic .
118	11	in addition , on may 5 , 2014 the company will not be able to take on the work of foreigners drivers with foreign rights .
118	12	such workers would receive russian law after the exam .


119	1	early puberty : aging earlier
119	2	афроамериканские__afroamerikanskie and latin american girls tend to reach puberty earlier than their white сверстницы__sverstnitsy , studies show .
119	3	physical changes do not mean that puberty close
119	4	there is no evidence that hormones or other chemicals are to blame
119	5	experts believe that the obesity epidemic may be one of the mechanisms of early puberty
119	6	the trend toward early puberty is not so pronounced in boys
119	7	former cnn correspondent pat etheridge is a journalist specializing in children ’ s health and family issues .
119	8	whether the mother пугаться__pugatsya if her daughter had begin to form the beginnings of the breast and pubic hair grow at 7 or 8 years ?
119	9	at the annual conference of the american academy of pediatrics this week in orlando , florida , child эндокринолог__endokrinolog dr. paul капловитц__kaplovitts explained that these early physical changes is quite common among american girls and represent a new norm .
119	10	“ i spend a lot of time , calming parents — usually it does not mean the rapid advance of full sexual maturity , ” said капловитц__kaplovitts .
119	11	obvious signs of development , such as growing breasts and pubic hair axillaries are and smell the body appear earlier in girls .
119	12	but it was only a slight shift in the age of menarche ( first period ) over the last four decades .
119	13	in the united states , the average age of 12.5 years and decreased compared with 12,75 in 1970 .
119	14	“ after chest begins to develop , is at least two to three years before menarche » , — said капловитц__kaplovitts , who is also the author of “ early puberty in girls : how to cope with this widespread problem . ”
119	15	time is the most accurate check of how puberty will prosper .
119	16	there is debate about what constitutes an offensive sexual maturity , but is considered “ premature ” when breast augmentation is accompanied by a sharp rise in growth to 8 years .
119	17	in most cases , the process will slow or be — is what the pediatrician can monitor carefully .
119	18	more rapid progress can serve as the basis for analyses have эндокринолога__endokrinologa to avoid serious problems , such as a tumor or cyst .
119	19	there are procedures to delay early menstruation and prevent another consequence : premature aging of bones , which ultimately can lead to slow growth and low growth in adulthood .
119	20	recommendations for drug or hormone therapy is based on the age of the child , the level of development , growth rates and emotional maturity .
119	21	psychosocial aspects are also important .
119	22	капловитц__kaplovitts cautious with drugs , but acknowledges that the suppression of puberty can mitigate behavioral problems and feelings of girls that they differ from peers . ”
119	23	another big problem is clear : parents simply do not want them to have very young daughters were menstruation .
119	24	“ they worry about the risks of pregnancy , or even about how they cope with hygiene issues , ” said капловитц__kaplovitts .
119	25	“ it was a shock , ” recalls one woman , the daughter of menstruation , which started in 10 years .
119	26	although there were signs and we talked about menstruation , she was not emotionally ready .
119	27	she came home from school , fearful and broken that it first among his friends .
119	28	there are many разрекламированных__razreklamirovannykh theories about the causes of early puberty .
119	29	nevertheless , there is no consistent evidence that to blame hormones in milk or other foods , chemicals in the environment or sexual statements in the media .
119	30	the boys — like girls , puberty begins earlier .
119	31	капловитц__kaplovitts argues that the premise , which has the greatest weight is an epidemic of obesity .
119	32	in 2001 , he helped conduct a study of girls from 6 to 9 years , which connects the amount of fat in the body with the timing of puberty .
119	33	other data confirm this conclusion , but there are many other contributing factors .
119	34	in this country and афроамериканские__afroamerikanskie latin american girls tend to reach puberty earlier than their white сверстницы__sverstnitsy .
119	35	there are various explanations .
119	36	around the world , on early puberty , apparently affects everything from economic conditions and climate change to genes .
119	37	another mystery : although boys have hair on the face and on лобке__lobke appear at younger ages , a trend to complete it early sex not as pronounced as in girls .
119	38	other physicians participating in the conference of the aap , confirmed the complexity of this subject .
119	39	the emergence of pimples and pubic hair found even in infants and children of nursery age .
119	40	“ we must be careful about how we define the true onset of puberty , ” said dr. laurence silverman , child эндокринолог__endokrinolog at children ’ s hospital in гориеб__gorieb g . the morristown , new jersey .
119	41	parents should not hesitate to seek guidance from a pediatrician about how to talk with their child .
119	42	“ it may mean an earlier than expected , conversation , ” explained капловитц__kaplovitts .
119	43	if you keep calm , your child normally reacts well .
119	44	girls that blossom early , you need proof that even when it happens early , this process is a normal part of life .


120	1	the head of the dagestan are in hymn kuban hints of extremism
120	2	football match between " anji " and " кубанью__kubanyu " resulted in political коллизию__kolliziyu between the authorities and the krasnodar region of dagestan after dagestani fans burned a flag and anthem kuban someone different .
120	3	the head of the dagestan ramazan абдулатипов__abdulatipov thursday suggested republican parliamentarians to go to court because the anthem of the krasnodar territory supposedly gives calls for interethnic strife , in particular , calling for war with " басурманами__basurmanami " .
120	4	take the anthem of krasnodar region , it is in our time in 1995 , approved the national anthem .
120	5	it is a disgrace , and one that does not .
120	6	" about you here вспоминаючи__vspominayuchi as native for his mother , the enemy , on басурманина__basurmanina we go in mortal combat " - for what such words written in anthem , worried some believers on other believers , " expressed solidarity with the president of parliament абдулатиповым__abdulatipovym хизри__khizri шихсаидов__shikhsaidov .


121	1	rbs shuts off two currency traders
121	2	royal bank of scotland temporarily evicted from the work of the two traders in their subdivision on currency transactions , according to two people familiar with the situation , that is another proof that global regulators checking alleged manipulation in the currency market is rapidly gaining momentum .
121	3	some of the world ’ s biggest banks , including ubs , barclays , deutsche bank and rbs , have confirmed that they are co-operating with regulators in the investigation of the world ’ s largest financial market , which the daily turnover of $ 5.3 trillion .
121	4	these will be the first two trader by rbs , отстраненными__otstranennymi during the investigation progressing , which dovetails with the scandal involving the manipulation of the libor interbank rate .
121	5	refusing to comment on the removal , the bank confirmed that this month he received requests for information from the regulators .
121	6	“ our ongoing inquiry into this matter continues and we are cooperating fully with the fca and our other regulators , ” — reported in the bank two weeks ago .
121	7	last month the knowledgeable person said that rbs had sent the e-mail and instant messages , which received and sent his former trader , the uk regulatory authority is managing to control financial activities ( fca ) .
121	8	this trader , richard asher , resigned from rbs in 2010 and , as far as we know , he was granted leave on his current european head of spot fx trading at jpmorgan .
121	9	rohan рамчандани__ramchandani , head of european spot trading in citi , went on vacation this week , while matt gardiner , a former senior fx trader at barclays and ubs , was suspended from work at standard chartered bank this week .
121	10	none of these traders was not accused of any violations .
121	11	a group of contacts instant messages mr usher included bankers from barclays and citigroup , according to knowledgeable people .
121	12	bank ubs said this week that he has taken action against some of its employees after the swiss regulator finma said he is investigating alleged manipulation in the currency market in a number of swiss banks .
121	13	at least six of the regulatory authorities in the world — the european commission , finma , switzerland antimonopoly body weko , fca , the u.s. department of justice and the hong kong monetary authority is considering allegations that bankers were in collusion to impact on the foreign exchange market .
121	14	hsbc , citigroup , jpmorgan and credit suisse also began internal testing or have received requests for information from regulators , said a person familiar with the situation .
121	15	banks sift through instant messages and emails for several years in finding cases of wrongdoing .
121	16	news about the checks всколыхнули__vskolykhnuli traders in the sphere of activity in recent years , which was one of the largest sources of income trading divisions of the investment banks , which this year , however , faced with difficulties because low volatility of currency reduces the opportunities for buyers .
121	17	some bankers have sought to downplay the seriousness of the situation , saying that extensive and высоколиквидным__vysokolikvidnym currency market is almost impossible to manipulate , but senior traders say this is not always true .
121	18	in the words of a senior trader , despite the huge amount of daily trades in the foreign exchange market , liquidity fragmentation between different trading platforms , and wider use of the banks ’ own internal platforms means that “ you can begin to influence the market for one low price . ”
121	19	the news came on the same day as the bank credit suisse announced that sacked one of its traders of the stock trades on the london stock exchange this week after he inflicted losses amounting to nearly 6 million dollars at the end of last year .
121	20	the bank shall immediately informed the relevant authorities and cooperating with its regulators .
121	21	“ we are confident that the trader acted alone and that this question was able to pinpoint , ” said credit suisse .


122	1	the supreme court upheld the law obama on healthcare
122	2	the us supreme court today ruled that important law of barack obama on healthcare is a constitutional , and that is a major victory for the obama administration .
122	3	voting 5 to 4 , the judge decided that individual orders according to the law on the patient protection and affordable care requiring citizens to purchase health insurance by 2014 or pay a penalty , is constitutional under the powers of the government on taxation .
122	4	chief justice john roberts joined the four more liberal members of the court , while judges скалиа__skalia , thomas , alito and kennedy were against .
122	5	the court also upheld the remaining sections of the law 2700-страничного__2700-stranichnogo and then ruled that the requirement of the law on healthcare that states have increased compliance with the medicaid program , otherwise they would lose all federal funding for the medicaid program is not unconstitutional forced .
122	6	the lawsuit about blocking the bill made 26 states and the national federation of independent business .
122	7	against the law decisively addressed each of the major republican presidential candidates during the primary season , the 2012 election , including the proposed candidate , mitt romney .


123	1	tickets to heihe will cost tourists in 2 200 rubles
123	2	from tomorrow from blagoveschensk to heihe tourists start to take court hovercraft .
123	3	for those wishing to travel to china this means additional spending
123	4	ticket to пуму__pumu traditionally cost considerably more expensive than on the vessel .
123	5	as reported in the reference service company " амурассо__amurasso " , the cost of the ordinary ticket is expected to be 2 200 rubles .
123	6	travel through superior room will cost 2 800 rubles .
123	7	by the way , this season tickets are not tightened : at the same price of tourists and puma was taken last spring , and a year ago - in the autumn .


124	1	faa places restrictions on the use of electronic devices in aircraft , although chat on mobile phones will remain prohibited .
124	2	warplanes attacked a warehouse of russian missiles in the port city of latakia , the official said .
124	3	it is , apparently , the continuation of the israeli campaign to prevent the spread of weapons in the middle east .
124	4	federal appeals court blocks judge ruling that the controversial new york city police tactics is discriminatory against minorities .
124	5	nearly 100 migrants from africa , надеявшихся__nadeyavshikhsya reach algeria , died of thirst after two of their truck snap in the middle of the sahara .
124	6	experts say that as a result of the violence , which killed 14 adults and seven children , not that other , as a coincidence , and not a sign of rising violence in america .
124	7	instead of worrying about the activities of the u.s. government , investors continue to pay your attention to what probably matters most — the federal reserve .
124	8	a woman from california plans to contest what may be the first of its kind precedent , claiming that connected to the internet glasses make navigation easier .
124	9	police say they have video in which , apparently , shows how the mayor rob ford smokes a pipe with “ крэком__krekom . ”
124	10	even close allies to hide something from each other — and are doing all they can to find out what is hidden from them .
124	11	the vatican wants to know how catholic parishes around the world settle sensitive issues such as divorce , contraception and homosexual couples .


125	1	" russian march " becomes more popular
125	2	on 4 november , the day of national unity , in moscow will be negotiated with the city the russian march .
125	3	according to a poll by the levada center , " " support russian marches " grows - already 40 % of citizens in varying degrees of favoring the idea of .
125	4	according to the levada center " " , 40 % of citizens in varying degrees of russians approve of holding " " marches : 11 % of them belong to such protests is definitely positive and 29 % - " " rather positive .
125	5	the popularity of russian ideas--to " " marches gradually increasing - in 2006 , these shares was welcomed by only 14 % of russians , and in december 2010 , conducting such events has already twice more citizens ( 28 % ) .
125	6	definitely " " " negatively to the russian side " include only 7 % of russians , " rather negatively " - 19 % .
125	7	another 35 percent were unable to formulate their attitude to this action .
125	8	this year , the city of moscow agreed on holding the russian march " " consisting of up to 15 thousand people to encompass about this today , head of the department of security capital aleksei mayorov .
125	9	this action of the nationalists is held every year on the day of national unity since 2005 .
125	10	on the question of sociologists " did you hear about that on 4 november in russia are " " russian marches under the slogan of protection of the rights of russians in russia ? " three-quarters ( 75 % ) of citizens answered in the negative .
125	11	now knows about this campaign , only every fifth russian ( 20 % ) .
125	12	it is noteworthy that in december 2010 about " " russian marches were citizens are familiar with almost a third ( 31 % ) .
125	13	recall that three years ago , on 11 december on manezh square was a spontaneous rally of nationalists who turned into the riots .
125	14	levada center " " also asked respondents about how the holiday is celebrated on november 4 .
125	15	in two years the number of those who know the right answer ( the day of national unity ) increased from 41 % to 49 % .
125	16	however , to celebrate this holiday are going only 15 % of citizens .
125	17	about the same ( 17 % ) intend to celebrate on november 7 , the day of the october revolution .
125	18	the majority of citizens ( 62 % ) are not going to be none of these holidays .
125	19	as mayor of moscow agreed on the russian march in lyublino
125	20	october 28 , city authorities have agreed to conduct " " russian march 4 november to encompass .
125	21	told the leader of the russkie " , organizer of the march dmitry демушкин__demushkin .
125	22	in addition to the lyublino rally in a day of national unity will rally and rock band kolovrat " " , also agreed with the authorities .
125	23	how was the russian " марш-2012__marsh-2012 "
125	24	in a day of national unity in 2012 nationalists held a march from the embankment якиманской__yakimanskoy to the central house of the artist , where the rally was held .
125	25	organizers estimated the number of participants at 20,000 people , the interior ministry called number 6 thousand .


126	1	snowden declares readiness to communicate with the authorities of the federal republic of germany in the case of listening action
126	2	экс-сотрудник__eks-sotrudnik cia edward snowden expressed willingness to come to germany as soon as it gets for this legal opportunity , and to meet with the representatives of the government of germany , ria novosti reports .
126	3	a former collaborator of the cia to the authorities of the federal republic of germany , at a meeting with journalists in berlin on friday presented a bundestag mp ганс-кристиан__gans-kristian штребеле__shtrebele , through which snowden had sent a message to german authorities .
126	4	on the eve of the сноуденом__snoudenom штребеле__shtrebele met in moscow .


127	1	today , it is important for the public not the number of available medical institutions and their status , and quality of care .
127	2	implementation of the program “ modernization of health of the tula region in 2011 - 2013 's " . , reorganization of the health of our city would create an optimal structure provide medical assistance to the population , including гинекологическим__ginekologicheskim sick , pregnant and recently confined women .
127	3	so , after merging with горбольницей__gorbolnitsey appeared greater opportunity to attract narrow specialists from гуз__guz " нгкб__ngkb " pregnant for consultations with various pathologies , conduct additional examinations at the hospital .
127	4	during the realization of the program of modernization was significantly improved material and technical base maternity hospital has modern equipment , corresponding to the world standards .
127	5	during these years allocated around 8 million rubles on overhaul of premises , purchased 112 units of equipment worth $ 42 million rubles .
127	6	equipped with the most modern equipment intensive post for newborns .
127	7	in operating during cesarean section used device " селл-сейвер__sell-seyver " to collect blood from wounds after operating and special treatment to return her роженице__rozhenitse , avoiding a blood transfusion чужеродной__chuzherodnoy .
127	8	the department is equipped with modern equipment also клинико-лабораторной__kliniko-laboratornoy diagnostics .
127	9	in maternity clinics functioning electronic reception desk , in the nearest future it is planned to the introduction of electronic cards and case histories of patients .
127	10	thanks to the development of telemedicine consultations appeared to gynecological sick , pregnant , pregnant women and newborns with regional experts .


128	1	the rebels beat and robbed 60 prostitutes in strasbourg
128	2	the natives of chechnya arrested by french police on suspicion of serial attacks on prostitutes .
128	3	the investigation was conducted since march this year .
128	4	the actions of caucasians complained about 60 women .
128	5	reportedly , the gunmen ordered страсбургских__strasburgskikh prostitutes in one of the hotels , and then beat and robbed them .
128	6	главарем__glavarem 27-летниц__27-letnits earlier criminal gangs was a native of chechnya .


129	1	venezuela will set the exchange rate for tourists
129	2	venezuela imposes special exchange rate for their national currency , the bolivar , relative to the dollar for the tourists .
129	3	on the 1 november , bloomberg agency reported citing government decree .
129	4	foreign travelers will be allowed for the year exchange amount , equivalent to ten thousand us dollars .
129	5	venezuela will also allow tourists to sell up to 25 percent of the country will pay at the time of departure .
129	6	the rate of the bolivar against the dollar will be installed later .
129	7	in february , caracas was forced to devalue the local currency to 6,3 bolivar per dollar .
129	8	but on the black market a dollar is estimated at 57 bolivars .
129	9	since the beginning of the year the bolivar has lost nearly 70 percent of its value .
129	10	in september , inflation in venezuela was nearly 50 percent .
129	11	the minister of oil industry and vice president for economics on october 18 , rafael ramirez said venezuela has no plans to devalue the bolivar .
129	12	according to unofficial sources , who led the agency , caracas could still to decide on a reduction in the rate of the national currency after municipal elections in december .
129	13	containment of the prices for products and commodities , as well as a high degree of зарегулированности__zaregulirovannosti venezuelan economy led to shortages of certain goods and functioning of the black currency market .
129	14	this spring , the media wrote that in venezuela has been marked by a lack of toilet paper .


130	1	john kerry says in his unprecedented recognition that espionage usa “ went far неподобающе__nepodobayushche »
130	2	john kerry demonstrated easing tactics to protect u.s. tracking programs , making an unprecedented acknowledgment that in some cases , us spying " went far неподобающе__nepodobayushche . ”
130	3	the secretary also acknowledged that the guilty , along with barack obama , that has been “ on autopilot ” during the appearance of the high-profile revelations by edward сноудена__snoudena about the espionage activities of the nsa .
130	4	these leaks have put the us government at the center of a diplomatic scandal with its allies .
130	5	speaking via video link on open government conference in london , mr kerry said : “ there is no doubt that the president and i , as well as other members of the government actually took some things happening on autopilot , because that possibility already existed — and during the second world war , and in the very difficult years of the cold war , and , of course , september 11 . ”
130	6	then he became the first senior member of the government of the united states to recognize that the us espionage has gone too far , but stressed that individual rights were not violated .
130	7	he said : “ in some cases this has come far неподобающе__nepodobayushche .
130	8	and the president is determined to shed light on this question and explain to people , and now conducts a thorough analysis to ensure that no one has the feeling of abuse .
130	9	i assure you , the abuse of innocent people is not present in this process . ”
130	10	mr kerry insisted , however , that the nsa acted out of good intentions and that its tracking operation saved many lives .
130	11	he added : “ we are in a new world where people are ready to blow up himself .
130	12	in the world there are radical extremism , безрассудный__bezrassudnyy and determined to kill people , blowing up people and attacking the government .
130	13	and if you were able to intercept it , stop it before it happens ?
130	14	we actually prevent crashing planes , explosions of buildings and killing people because we were able to learn more about these plans in advance . ”
130	15	meanwhile , u.s. lawmakers направятся__napravyatsya in europe to help resolve issues associated with the alleged u.s. espionage abroad and to convince europeans of the need to continue joint anti-terrorism measures with the united states , said the chairman of the senate subcommittee on european affairs on thursday .
130	16	the senator from connecticut , chris murphy said he talked with members of the european parliament , and the other parties on this week and is concerned about their threats to suspend participation in the anti-terrorist organizations because of disappointment in connection with the persecution of the national security agency .
130	17	“ for us national security interests are really important to europeans remained our supporters in respect of our joint counter-terrorism efforts , ” said democrat murphy , working in the position of first term and is the chairman of the international relations of the senate subcommittee on european affairs , in an interview from washington .
130	18	“ and i am going to europe , to give them to understand that we must continue to cooperate in the fight against terrorism , despite their anger over these nsa programs . ”
130	19	news that the nsa collected millions of records of telephone calls in europe worsen relations with some allies of the us , although the head of the agency said this week that they were inaccurate and reflected a misunderstanding that collected metadata nato allies and which they shared with the united states .
130	20	in other quoted сноуденом__snoudenom разоблачениях__razoblacheniyakh released documents showing that the nsa continued monitoring the mobile phone of german chancellor angela merkel , as well as phones of approximately 34 other world leaders .
130	21	director of national intelligence james клаппер__klapper defended espionage activities in respect of allies as necessary and said that it is commonplace on both sides .
130	22	against the backdrop of this hype murphy said his office organizes a trip members of congress , which is expected to take place this year , and that he hoped that the delegation will include members of both parties and both houses .
130	23	the names of the other participating legislators should be voiced in the coming days .
130	24	according to him , the program of the trip are still at the development stage .
130	25	although murphy has said that the goal of the trip is to improve relations , he said that “ a degree of rigidity well-meaning ” will emerge .
130	26	he said that european leaders must be honest with his people in what spyware programs they have used for many years .
130	27	“ while we can change our tracking program to better protect the rights of europeans , they must also agree with the fact that we are not the only people involved in intelligence activities , ” murphy said .
130	28	meanwhile , mr kerry will head into this weekend in the middle east and in poland for solving the problems of hostility against the u.s. strategy in syria , egypt and iran , but also the united states intelligence activity .


131	1	in the united states , the director of the school обстрелял__obstrelyal teenagers .
131	2	the director of one of the american high school teenagers literally have driven to despair .
131	3	the man said he was forced to take up weapons and start shooting .
131	4	the incident happened in tennessee .
131	5	according to the new york post , jewish young hoodlums закидали__zakidali house men toilet paper .
131	6	because of this , the director of the school opened fire on teenagers , resulting in multiple wounds to the leg and arm received a 15-year-old boy .
131	7	as the hooligans were not on the territory of property director , was charged with aggravated assault .
131	8	the man was released from prison on bail of $ 125 million .
131	9	the shooting at civilians in the united states becomes a terrible pattern .
131	10	literally on the eve of the man opened fire in the heart of the city of ridgecrest , florida in the u.s. state of california right to passersby on the street .
131	11	after that the offender took hostage two random passers-by , hid them in the trunk of the car and tried to escape .
131	12	earlier in an elementary school in newtown , connecticut , shooting was opened .
131	13	in high school she was the mother of adam , she was a caregiver .
131	14	shooting at the american school : wounded a 14-year-old girl
131	15	yet another incident involving shooting occurred on january 31 in the american school , this time in джорджиа__dzhordzhia анланте__anlante ( staff ) .
131	16	two men were hit : a 14-year-old pupil and teacher .


132	1	a chinese newspaper has published a call for “ subject ” реорганизации__reorganizatsii
132	2	a chinese newspaper has published on the front page of the call to release reporter accused of defamation , should be reorganized , informs the press regulator .
132	3	“ издающаяся__izdayushchayasya in guangzhou newspaper new express ” made an unexpected public statement with a request to release the journalist chen yongzhou .
132	4	but mr. chen subsequently confessed on television that he took bribes for writing false stories about companies with state property share .
132	5	“ now the new express ” should pass “ a process full of bug fixes ” , according to the regulator .
132	6	the order for the “ corrected errors ” came from гуандунского__guandunskogo management in the field of press and publication , radio , film and television .
132	7	a preliminary investigation revealed that owned by the yangcheng evening news group newspaper new express published several false reports about zoomlion company listed on the stock exchange in the period from september 2012 to august 2013 .
132	8	“ the leadership of the new express editorial " " was дезориентировано__dezorientirovano , ” the regulator said in a statement .
132	9	he says that the decision to impose an “ administrative penalty on chen yongzhou , in the form of the revocation of his license репортерской__reporterskoy . ”
132	10	“ he also gave an indication of yangcheng evening news group to conduct full correction of errors in " new express " and recommended it to carry out an investigation in respect of the situation of the responsible persons of the newspaper and immediately to make changes in the boards of the new express " " . ”
132	11	mr chen wrote several articles for the new express , ” in which the claims of financial irregularities in dealing with construction equipment company called zoomlion .
132	12	after he was detained , his newspaper has published on the front page of two call for his release , saying that she supports his journalistic activities .
132	13	but then mr. chen appeared on state television with recognition that it published false stories for money .
132	14	“ in this case i damaged the company zoomlion , and also the whole news media industry and its ability to deserve the trust of the public , ” he told state broadcaster cctv company .
132	15	i did it mostly because i was hungry for money and fame .
132	16	i realized his guilt .
132	17	after mr. chen ’ s “ confessions ” of the new express published an apology on the front page , saying that the newspaper had failed to properly check his reports .
132	18	recently , several high-profile suspects have made confessions on television .
132	19	experts say that the practice of knocking confessions in china continued to spread everywhere , despite recently adopted amendments to the laws that prohibit the authorities of forcing someone to самооговору__samoogovoru .


133	1	due to the violence of unclean force had to close several schools and a hospital
133	2	four schools in зимбабвийской__zimbabviyskoy province of matabeleland south province had to shut down because the students ... was being attacked by goblins .
133	3	as he told a local elder children overwhelmed in panic , and continue classes has proved impossible .
133	4	the story about гоблинах__goblinakh may sound like the artifice of the child for a european , but in africa , this is quite a serious argument for closing the school .
133	5	adults are afraid too unclean force .
133	6	in the summer , for example , the hospital in zimbabwe for them because the nurses , too , was being attacked by goblins .


134	1	fire teams were called to rescue потерявшегося__poteryavshegosya puppy who got stuck at a height of 50 feet above the ground on the dangerous ledge in career
134	2	cocker spaniel ruby ran away after being caught in a traffic accident
134	3	three days later , her jammed in a career , noticed a man выгуливавший__vygulivavshiy dog
134	4	firefighters descended on the rope to отвесному__otvesnomu slope to save a dog from imminent death
134	5	the puppy was lucky to escape after the fire had caused the team to raise him up and get to a safe place after he somehow got stuck at a height of 50 feet on the dangerous ledge отвесного__otvesnogo slope .
134	6	ruby девятимесячная__devyatimesyachnaya cocker spaniel ran away after got into a car accident on sunday afternoon , and spent three days in solitude before was rescued from quarry wednesday .
134	7	its owners , the 25-year-old scott алдерсон__alderson and his 20-year-old girlfriend becky hall were career 've флэппит__fleppit denholm in the city in west yorkshire to be reunited with ruby , and thanked the rescue service of west yorkshire .
134	8	they frantically searched their dog disappeared and placed the appeals on social networking sites after she escaped in a quarry after a minor accident .
134	9	at about 14 : 15 on wednesday zorki собаковод__sobakovod noticed ruby , jammed at a height of 50 feet to the ledge in a career .
134	10	technical rescue party from fire station клекхитона__klekkhitona hurried to the scene , got down to hold ropes to save ruby and used переноску__perenosku to pick her up on the slope .
134	11	офицер-специалист__ofitser-spetsialist rescue detachment andy clayton said : “ she was in a dangerous situation . ”
134	12	she was right in the middle of отвесного__otvesnogo slope — 50 feet up to the top and down to earth .
134	13	she is not двинула__dvinula and мускулом__muskulom during the rescue , she absolutely rigid .
134	14	but now she is in order .
134	15	then she ate biscuits .
134	16	it was a very unusual challenge .
134	17	the fact that the dog noticed , incredible .
134	18	peter офицер-специалист__ofitser-spetsialist rescue squad lau said : “ ruby was very lucky that her saved . ”
134	19	there was a chance that she could get very serious injury or worse .
134	20	ruby was taken to the vet for examination and was determined that with it all right , except for exhaustion and dehydration .
134	21	ms hall , from halifax , west yorkshire , said : “ watch the retreat was scary . ”
134	22	i could not believe that she was there at all .
134	23	it was amazing when she came back at us in his hands .
134	24	the vet said that if she обессилела__obessilela and lost consciousness , she likely would be dropped .
134	25	firefighters were wonderful .
134	26	it was very bravely — what they had done .
134	27	we are so thankful , and each of them was absolutely stunning .
134	28	mr алдерсон__alderson from keighley town added : “ we were afraid that it may fall , but she stayed there . ”
134	29	firefighters were изумительны__izumitelny .
134	30	i simply cannot believe that she was there .


135	1	think турагенты__turagenty departed in the past thanks to the internet ?
135	2	in the company of flight centre , it seems , is bucking the trend .
135	3	the company upgraded its profit forecast for the full year and expects record earnings from holiday makers in australia and the united kingdom .
135	4	the travel company now expects its full year underlying profit before tax to be between $ 325 and $ 340 million , compared to the previous forecast in the range of $ 305 to $ 315 million .
135	5	if current benchmarks are achieved , it will be 12 – 17-процентный__17-protsentnyy growth compared with a record profit of $ 290,4 million received in 2011 / 2012 .
135	6	managing director graham turner said the firm flight centre received 8 percent of the profit in the first half and started the second half with a good performance , especially on неделовым__nedelovym travels in australia and the uk .
135	7	“ over the period since the beginning of the year , we are working with a profit on our 10 countries , and according to some of them for the full year is expected to be a record high income before deducting interest and tax contributions , ” he said .
135	8	— these include australia and the united kingdom , which typically bring us the largest profits . ”
135	9	in australia business in the field of leisure in the second half of the year that recovered more than compensated for a weak domestic market of corporate travel .
135	10	similarly , in the uk the business flight centre in the field of leisure went well , while corporate customers were spending less .
135	11	its business in the united states , compensated losses incurred during the seasonally weak first half of the year , and it is expected the full profit for the third year in a row .
135	12	flight centre shares yesterday rose 3 cents to $ 38,20 mark .


136	1	the website of the ukrainian defence ministry estonia restored after hacker attack
136	2	the website of the ministry of defense of estonia restored after morning cyber attacks , the press service of the agency .
136	3	according to the defence ministry вице-канцлера__vitse-kantslera for information and administrative matters таймара__taymara петеркопа__peterkopa , this was primitive attack , the site simply перегрузили__peregruzili lots of queries .
136	4	all our experts quickly established , to date the work site restored .
136	5	" ministry caused minimal damage , " said петеркоп__peterkop edition postimees .
136	6	according to петеркопа__peterkopa until early to speak about who organized the attacks .
136	7	“ we will definitely analyze the causes of this incident and will make its findings , but it is impossible to completely prevent such incidents , " he said .
136	8	напоним__naponim , 1 november ukraine group anonymous posted online appeal in which confirmed хакерскую__khakerskuyu attack on the website of the ministry of defense of estonia and opposed the partnership between ukraine and the nato .
136	9	we want nato услышало__uslyshalo our voice , the voice of the ukrainian people .
136	10	we must not be servants of nato .
136	11	ukrainians do not want to die for the interests of nato member states .
136	12	ukraine does not need nato .
136	13	ukraine does not need in the european union .
136	14	ukraine and russia did not need .
136	15	ukraine does not have to be a slave to anybody 's .
136	16	we advocate an independent ukraine .
136	17	" hands off ukraine , " anonymous said in a statement .
136	18	earlier the ministry of defence of ukraine reported that a company of marines feodosia a battalion of marines will engage in exercises command and staff of nato response force steadfast jazz-2013 .


137	1	japan will discuss with russia the issue of the conclusion of a peace treaty
137	2	the head of the japanese foreign minister fumio kishida met russian foreign minister sergei lavrov to discuss issues associated with the conclusion of a peace treaty between the two countries .
137	3	" would like to frankly exchange views on the issues of further development of political dialogue , to discuss issues associated with the conclusion of a peace treaty , " kishida said at the meeting .
137	4	the minister of foreign affairs of japan recalled that after japanese prime minister shinzo abe visited russia , relations between the countries have become more warm and acquired bilateral in nature .
137	5	the russian minister , in turn , noted that the russian federation will meet japan in solving complex political issues , according to ria novosti .
137	6	the conclusion of a peace treaty between japan and russia means to resolve the issue of the disputed northern territories .
137	7	in this connection in tokyo today there are protests calling for the country to regain land lost after world war ii .
137	8	according to the japanese capital powered cars , of which comes on a loudspeaker : " return northern territory ! " .
137	9	the police did not stop protesters , they are watching so 't превышался__prevyshalsya noise level .


138	1	halloween 2013 in numbers
138	2	when i was little , halloween was magical .
138	3	us with his sister was allowed to eat candy , not to go to bed late and hold a masquerade to our area .
138	4	now i am more at похожу__pokhozhu скрягу__skryagu .
138	5	i am not вызывалась__vyzyvalas in the past two years , handing out candy at his apartment and , most likely , will not and this year .
138	6	however , statistics show that i am a white crow in regard to halloween .
138	7	according to the national retail federation , the majority of americans — namely 158 million — will celebrate halloween this year , and spend a total of $ 6.9 billion on costumes , candy , and decorations .
138	8	the only thing i wait every halloween is trending .
138	9	the national retail federation predicts that the suits will be spent $ 1.2 billion from $ 6.9 billion .
138	10	this year , at the height of fashion sexual inanimate objects .
138	11	women no longer need to be members of the professions of sex ; they can also be sexual food such as pizza , гамбургерами__gamburgerami or морковками__morkovkami .
138	12	as for the men , i think we will see a lot of zombie thanks " ходячим__khodyachim мертвецам__mertvetsam ” , and i am confident that the astronauts in the style of the band daft punk tapes to be in our 11 this year .
138	13	according to google , the costumes , which are most often is a zombie , batman , pirates and witches .
138	14	perhaps , there is nothing wrong with the traditional approach .
138	15	we нарядили__naryadili our dogs last year and , to my surprise , we were not the only ones .
138	16	moreover , according to the national retail federation , americans spend this year , $ 330 million on costumes for pets .
138	17	this means a lot of funny собак-хотдогов__sobak-khotdogov .
138	18	when it comes to sweets , we do not мелочимся__melochimsya .
138	19	americans spend on them $ 1.9 billion this year , according to nielsen .
138	20	this is about 600 million pounds of candy bars , hershey sweets 're , milk duds , chew candy bars and twizzlers clark bar .
138	21	according to the u.s. department of commerce , this is excellent news for 41 million of sweets that children who got ready to conquer our areas .
138	22	moreover , we will buy and — will not deceive ourselves — eat 90 million pounds of chocolate during halloween .
138	23	the only thing that we do not want to use is in the form of candy corn grains ; and yet , according to the national confectioners association , nearly 35 million pounds of them sold for halloween .
138	24	this is about 9 billion individual corn зернышек__zernyshek .
138	25	this is the conundrum that i still have to solve .
138	26	nothing so expresses the essence of halloween as a haunted house .
138	27	they have terrific names , such as “ terror behind the walls ” ( which , incidentally , is in a real prison ) , “ whine and cry ” and “ house of shock . ”
138	28	moreover , according to the society of america haunts , in america , there are 1,200 officially recognized haunted houses , generating about $ 500 million of income , as well as the stunning photos where you almost описалась__opisalas that your friend posted on facebook , and you cannot remove , and then the guy who you like , sees this picture and leave a comment like “ cool expression . ”
138	29	and in conclusion , let ’ s talk about the pumpkins .
138	30	charlie brown introduced us to the great тыквой__tykvoy when we were children , and cutting lamp jack — is like a christmas tree ornament , what we are doing with childhood .
138	31	fortunately for us , the fashion on the child in тыкве__tykve began only in the past year thanks to pinterest , so most of us grew up , these carved pumpkin , and not sitting in them .
138	32	according to the united states census bureau , this year americans spend about $ 106 million on the pumpkin .
138	33	the lamp jack , slowly drying on your porch , probably arrived from the state of illinois , who raised this year , 542 million pounds of pumpkin .
138	34	if you want a task even harder than come to visit , tim and susan мэтисдон__metisdon in the town of napa valley in california and try to cut something out of their pumpkin , weighing 2 pounds .


139	1	defender david alaba " " bavaria and austria has become the best athlete in 2013 , according to the official website of the bundesliga .
139	2	in this debate it ahead of winter sports , which traditionally are the best in the country .
139	3	the second place was alpine skier marcel hirscher and third - прыгун__prygun skiing with jump gregor schlierenzauer .
139	4	last season , the 21-year-old austrian филиппино-нигерийского__filippino-nigeriyskogo origin had helped his team win in the champions league , the championship and the german cup and uefa суперкубке__superkubke .


140	1	in кинешме__kineshme and the two men committed suicide
140	2	previously one of the hung up already committed suicide attempt .
140	3	october 30 , about 1-00 , in the village of luhove at the place of his birth , 1947 … a man committed suicide by hanging .
140	4	it is known that he has previously made attempts at suicide .
140	5	what made the man on such a step is unknown .
140	6	31 october at 11-50 , place of residence with life committed suicide by hanging , a 41-year-old resident of кинешмы__kineshmy .
140	7	signs of violent death is not found , the press service of the ministry of internal affairs of kineshma mo " " .


141	1	mick jagger says he not заигрывал__zaigryval with katy perry when she was 18
141	2	during an interview on australian radio this week the pop star said she was бэк-вокалисткой__bek-vokalistkoy for jagger 2004 , old habits die hard .
141	3	perry said that with ужинала__uzhinala рокером-ветераном__rokerom-veteranom and noted : “ he заигрывал__zaigryval with me when i was 18 . ”
141	4	she added : “ it was a very long time ago , and he was a very good father . ”
141	5	in a statement thursday , the representative of the 70-year-old jagger said that he “ categorically denies that he ever приударял__priudaryal for katy perry . ”
141	6	the spokesman added : “ maybe she confuses him with someone else . ”
141	7	perry was among the performers who have appeared as guests on a tour of the rolling stones this year .
141	8	her new album prism debuted in first place this week .


142	1	the tunnel discovered the u.s. — mexico to transport drugs , equipped with its own railway
142	2	they found one of the most sophisticated tunnels for smuggling drugs between the us and mexico , equipped with its own systems , lighting , ventilation and an electric rail system .
142	3	us authorities describe this tunnel four wide on three feet as one of the most sophisticated secret moves ever detected them .
142	4	this tunnel , which zigzags are almost the length of six football fields linking warehouses near the city of tijuana ( mexico ) and san diego ( usa ) .
142	5	this area is full of неприметными__neprimetnymi warehouses that facilitates the hidden loading drugs in trucks .
142	6	the tunnel was closed before through it were quietly transferred any drug , as authorities said .
142	7	according to court documents , правоохранители__pravookhraniteli confiscated eight and a half tons of marijuana and 327 pounds of cocaine in the detection of the tunnel .
142	8	three men who , according to правоохранителям__pravookhranitelyam worked drivers , were charged with possession of marijuana and cocaine with intent to distribute .
142	9	in the event of a conviction they face prison terms of 10 years to life imprisonment .
142	10	in the city of nogales , arizona , smugglers are using the vast underground drainage channels .
142	11	the tunnel is the eighth largest alleyway , discovered in san diego since 2006 .
142	12	some of the tunnels were discovered in central mexico after harvest marijuana in october , which set out to challenge the drug cartels fast delivery of their product to consumers .
142	13	in 2010 , the government found the length of approximately 700 yards , equipped with рельсовыми__relsovymi ways , who went from the kitchen of one of the homes in тихуане__tikhuane to two san diego warehouses .


143	1	the parents of a teenager from georgia , who died on a “ bizarre coincidence ” , believe their son was murdered
143	2	the parents of a georgia teenager whose body was found inside the collapsed sports gym mat at his high school , believe their son was murdered , a lawyer for the family said on thursday .
143	3	kendrick johnson of valdosta , georgia , the state of georgia was found january 11 in a vertically next mate , прислоненном__prislonennom back to the outside in the gym of his secondary school .
143	4	lowndes county sheriff department investigators concluded that johnson died in a tragic accident , but the family of 17-year-old teenager disputes this .
143	5	“ they are absolutely sure that their son was killed , ” said benjamin foxnews.com kramp , the lawyer representing kenneth and jacqueline johnson .
143	6	they never believed he died as sheriff says .
143	7	“ they believe that this contradicts the logic , the laws of physics and common sense ” — kramp said .
143	8	they think that it is cover for the protection of the person or people responsible for the death of their son .
143	9	“ they sent her son to school with school bag , and he was returned to them in the bag for corpses , ” he said .
143	10	u.s. attorney michael moore said on thursday that it was conducting an investigation into the death of johnson , noting that several key questions remain unanswered .
143	11	what was the cause of death ?
143	12	whether his death was the result of a crime ?
143	13	moore made the announcement at a press conference on thursday afternoon .
143	14	i изучу__izuchu all the facts , wherever they led .
143	15	my goal is to get to know the truth .
143	16	“ i am of the view that there are sufficient grounds for an official investigation , he said .
143	17	moore told reporters that initial autopsy found that johnson died as a result of the position as . ”
143	18	but a second autopsy , according to moore , showed another cause of death .
143	19	“ there are several issues that must be resolved , or clarify , ” he said .
143	20	moore added that if he finds enough evidence to require a criminal or civil investigation into the death of johnson , he asked the fbi to conduct it .
143	21	lowndes county sheriff department spokesman was not available for comment when approached to him on thursday .
143	22	south georgia judge on wednesday ordered authorities to publish all video surveillance cameras , which investigators viewed .
143	23	parents of the teens said that they hope the recordings contain the clue to how he died .


144	1	pakistani authorities have begun talks with local taliban
144	2	pakistani authorities have started negotiations with the taliban movement .
144	3	informed that country ’ s embassy in britain , where prime minister of pakistan , nawaz sharif , is to visit .
144	4	the head of the government of pakistan made a statement about the talks with islamic extremists during a meeting with british deputy prime minister nick клеггом__kleggom , with whom he discussed issues of relations between pakistan and india , the global energy market and economic reform in pakistan .
144	5	the prime minister also said that dialogue with the taliban movement began , said in a statement the embassy of pakistan in london .
144	6	he said he hopes and prays that a dialogue has earned in accordance with the constitution of pakistan , " diplomats added .
144	7	the pakistani taliban ( техрик-и-талибан__tekhrik-i-taliban pakistan ) are allies of the afghan movement , but operate independently of him in the northwest districts of the country , and the border with afghanistan .
144	8	the pakistani taliban are seeking the creation of an islamic state .
144	9	previously , the islamabad government made attempts to start negotiations with the local taliban , but the refusal of dialogue .
144	10	it announced that he would go to negotiations only if authorities отведут__otvedut in place of permanent deployment of troops stationed in areas where the taliban are active , and will be released from prison arrested islamists .
144	11	nawaz sharif arrived in london at the world islamic economic forum .
144	12	on tuesday , 29 october , british prime minister david cameron , the head of the pakistani government and the afghan president hamid karzai held a three-way meeting in london to discuss the prospects for the peace process in afghanistan .


145	1	goalkeeper " нефтехимика__neftekhimika " matt dalton declined to comment on the departure of vladimir крикунова__krikunova as mentor нижнекамцев__nizhnekamtsev .
145	2	the goalkeeper believes that the acting head coach dmitry балмин__balmin enjoys great authority and the players will cope with their responsibilities .
145	3	recall that today " neftechimik " sacked the крикунова__krikunova .
145	4	to be honest , i would not like to comment on dismissal of vladimir крикунова__krikunova , " далтона__daltona as quoted by ria novosti .
145	5	i can say only that dmitry балмин__balmin cope with its obligations on him - that i have no doubt .
145	6	in the team he enjoys great authority , this is definitely a young specialist have a great future .


146	1	the owners of pawn shops in singapore is doing well , while the middle class is experiencing difficulties
146	2	in lombard in shopping mall in singapore бендемир__bendemir джанани__dzhanani амиртхалинга__amirtkhalinga lays the golden bracelet , ring and earrings to pay for the education of his daughter .
146	3	“ my husband and i just bought a house so that all my money is invested there , ” said ms. амиртхалинга__amirtkhalinga .
146	4	though she earns s $ 3,000 ( $ 2,400 ) a month as an administrator and her husband also works , a monthly family income is not enough , she says .
146	5	indeed , demand in various parts of southeast asia — where the debt of households is growing — is that valuemax where she spends her deal this week became the third ломбардом__lombardom registered on the singapore stock exchange .
146	6	credit under pledge of jewellery is not just a quick way to get money ( s $ 1,300 in the case of ms. амиртхалинга__amirtkhalinga ) , but almost as cheap as unsecured bank loans .
146	7	usually there are pawnbrokers in singapore in an effective annual interest rate of 17 % — slightly above the 15.4 % offered in the united overseas bank , a local lender , with a branch in the same shopping center .
146	8	however , pawnbrokers have the advantage that they do not require a credit check or evidence of wage and can give loans faster than banks .
146	9	however , millions of people across the region are turning to pawnbrokers , as households feel the pressure because of the rising cost of living and the rapid growth of household debt and consumer debt .
146	10	after five years of robust growth , following the global financial crisis and cheap credit , подпитывавшихся__podpityvavshikhsya loose monetary policy in developed economies , low- and middle-income families are turning to pawnbrokers , to compensate for the decrease in revenues as the slowing growth of their economies .
146	11	this week , standard &amp; poor ’ s , the rating agency , 's indicated an increase in household leverage , mainly due to the growth of the mortgage , as a risk factor for the creditworthiness of asian banks .
146	12	it announced that malaysia , thailand and singapore had the highest ratio of household debt to gross domestic product in asia .
146	13	malaysia topped the list with 80 % of gdp , compared with 60 % in 2008 .
146	14	economists also worry about high levels of consumer debt in thailand , which this week barely emerged from technical recession .
146	15	on thursday , data showed a continuing decline in exports and weakening consumer demand .
146	16	“ the bottom line is that people with higher prices in the middle and bottom of the income scale ] [ will look for ways to supplement their incomes where only able , ” says song сенг__seng вун__vun , economist at cimb , the malaysian bank .
146	17	record high gold prices in the past two years have reinforced the ibsc board with which people lay their personal belongings as they use to get money for their own family decorations .
146	18	in singapore , about 70 % of the things contained in paragraphs 200 ломбардных__lombardnykh city-state 's--are gold products .
146	19	people say : “ the price of gold looks good , let us заложим__zalozhim gold chain of grandmothers and get it back in the next month . ”
146	20	in thailand , the largest operator of pawn shops easymoney observed an increase in the number of customers using its branches in recent months , up to 20 % .
146	21	growth in business ломбардном__lombardnom is that valuemax , operator of the бендемире__bendemire and 15 other similar in singapore , plans to expand not only in neighboring malaysia , where it has four stores , but also outside of asia , too , says йеах__yeakh lee ching , executive director of valuemax .
146	22	the company will finance the expansion , with 60 per cent of s $ 66 million raised this week as a result of placement of shares on the singapore stock exchange .
146	23	while some lenders have sparked the fire of critics because of high interest rates , ms. lombard йеах__yeakh says that not only offers cheaper rates than other lenders , it also does not increase the debt directly .
146	24	“ clients lay items which they already possess , and monetization of personal assets does not increase the debt of households , ” she says .
146	25	bet wins wider public recognition as a means to obtain short-term secured funding .
146	26	and while ломбардами__lombardami enjoyed not only those categories of people who are in a precarious financial position .
146	27	rich people in singapore also use of valuemax , laying gold ingots or a rolex , who can give up to 60 percent of their purchase price in cash .
146	28	we are seeing clients from all sectors of society .
146	29	“ they include wealthy individuals who need to borrow money for a short period of time for commercial projects or investments , or small businesses , which need to be overcome temporary financial difficulties , ” said ms. йеах__yeakh .
146	30	sometimes they simply needed money very quickly .


147	1	bashkiria grain can put on trades not before early 2014
147	2	bashkiria in the course of public procurement interventions can put the grain in trading until early 2014 , said minister of agriculture of the republic of nikolay kovalenko .
147	3	to date , the market prices are such that they do not encourage the sale in интервенционный__interventsionnyy fund .
147	4	while the market price is higher , and there is a demand .
147	5	perhaps " grain will be put up for auction , after the new year , he said at a press conference yesterday .
147	6	the minister recalled that in the current year crop harvest crops under 2013 amounted to 3.1 million hectares , including the area of crops - 1.7 million hectares , that is by 3,3 % more than last year .
147	7	under the 2014 harvest засеяно__zaseyano 550 thousand hectares ( 105 thousand ha more than in 2012 ) .
147	8	increased the area under grows wheat , rye and triticale remained at the same level .


148	1	in the voronezh region detained football fan разбивший__razbivshiy window in the waiting room of the station
148	2	at nine pm , october 29 , at the station грязи-воронежские__gryazi-voronezhskie transport police officers removed the passenger train two football fans - in moscow region .
148	3	having gone to the game favorite teams , the guys on the way staged a drunken brawl in a train .
148	4	young people took part in дежурную__dezhurnuyu linear police station on dirt for the protocol of administrative penalty .
148	5	there the fans in his раскаялись__raskayalis антиобщественном__antiobshchestvennom behavior .
148	6	police filed on them administrative material and released .
148	7	young people bought tickets for the next train and at the station to station waiting for his arrival .
148	8	in the first half of the night , fans left the building of the railway station , but one of them , 22-year-old guy suddenly came back and leg smashed the window of the door in the waiting room of the station .
148	9	the clink of glass разбившегося__razbivshegosya rushed transport police officer and security guard chop " rzd " .
148	10	they have managed to delay an intruder trying to flee from the scene .
148	11	by lou southeast of the russian ministry of internal affairs is checked .
148	12	ршается__rshaetsya question about a criminal case , said senior members of the media and public relations southeast lu of the russian ministry of internal affairs on transport sergei ольховик__olkhovik .


149	1	russian security officials had not known about the gang " fraternal circle " " novye izvestia
149	2	writes about this interfax.ru citing an informed source in the law enforcement agencies of the russian federation .
149	3	" after reports appeared in the media about the case by the u.s. treasury in the next stop checklists on suspicion of belonging to the eurasian criminal синдикату__sindikatu ' fraternal circle ' , we looked at all of the databases , but such groups not found " , is the interlocutor of agency said .
149	4	in his opinion , the dissemination of this information helps to maintain the myth of the so-called russian mafia , which allegedly operates abroad .
149	5	as previously mentioned neither " " yesterday , the us treasury has published on its website a list of alleged members of the criminal gang " fraternal circle " .
149	6	among them was named and russian singer grigori leps .
149	7	it appears in the list as " grisha " , posted the day before .
149	8	with these popular russian singer they coincide .
149	9	are the exact name is grigory лепсевридзе__lepsevridze , creative name , place and date of birth .
149	10	in addition to the next stop , there were five more people .
149	11	two russians , a citizen of israel , a citizen of uzbekistan and another origin from the former soviet union , whose nationality is not specified .
149	12	in the united states , confident that grigory leps , which lives on the island of phuket transported money for the bandits on their request .
149	13	attached to this message and photo of the singer lists all of its data , which correspond to reality .
149	14	moreover , leps , indeed , recently bought a house in phuket .
149	15	the fbi said they intend to impose sanctions on the next stop .
149	16	entry to the man in black lists of american finance ministry entails the blocking of his assets in the u.s. and a ban on business contacts with him persons residing in the united states .
149	17	assistant next stop maya серикова__serikova stated that no notifications to the singer himself was forthcoming : " hard to answer the question of whether it is the gregory , about which everyone is talking now in connection with the scandal in the united states .
149	18	all it knows is leps information media .
149	19	officially , to him personally , there was no notification , even though i don ’ t know whether they are in such cases .
149	20	“ and , of course , this is all on the one hand , funny , and on the other - and suddenly , surprisingly , " she told ria novosti .
149	21	according to her , in phuket grigory leps 't lives , but , as the finance ministry argues the u.s. house on thai island he really is .
149	22	she said that leps now is in a long tour to the far east and siberia , and that the news caught him on the flight to the city of blagoveshchensk .


150	1	you have a black box in your car ?
150	2	while american designers roads trying to find money to repair highways рассыпающейся__rassypayushcheysya system , many are beginning to see a solution in a little black box , neatly пристроенном__pristroennom on the dashboard of your car .
150	3	these devices , tracking every проезжаемую__proezzhaemuyu автомобилистом__avtomobilistom mile and transmit this information to officials , are at the center of the controversial attempts to modernize the antiquated system of financing the highways of america by routine by washington and the states .
150	4	usually a boring arena highways planning suddenly gave rise to intense debate and romantic alliances .
150	5	libertarians have joined environmental groups in lobbying the government for the right to use the small design to track the number of miles you проезжаемых__proezzhaemykh and even , perhaps , the one where you drive them - and then use this information when drawing up the tax bills .
150	6	tea party movement in shock .
150	7	the american civil liberties union also deeply concerned and raises a number of questions about private life .
150	8	and although until congress can agree to continue or not , several states are not going to wait .
150	9	they ponder how over the next decade , you can go to the system , under which drivers pay for each mile road , which they can ride .
150	10	thousands of motorists had taken for testing these black boxes , some of which have a function of satellite tracking .
150	11	is it really necessary for our country .
150	12	“ this is not an issue on which we have may be the right choice , ” said hassan ихрата__ikhrata , executive director of the southern california association of governments , which trains plans to start tracking the state authorities miles проезжаемых__proezzhaemykh every californian автомобилистом__avtomobilistom , by 2025 .
150	13	there will be changes in how we pay these taxes .
150	14	the technology to do this already exists .
150	15	the need for this is aggravated by a lack of funds from the government fund the construction of highways , funded by taxes that americans pay on автозаправках__avtozapravkakh .
150	16	americans are not buying as much gasoline as before .
150	17	cars passing more miles on one gallon .
150	18	the federal tax of 18.4 cents per gallon , not rose for 20 years .
150	19	politicians do not want to raise the tax by even one cent at high gasoline prices .
150	20	“ a tax on gasoline simply impossible to maintain , ” said li маннич__mannich , an expert on transport policy at the university of minnesota .
150	21	in his state was recently installed on the cars of 500 tracking devices for testing the system помильной__pomilnoy payment .
150	22	“ it would be the best option in the long run , ” he said .
150	23	call it the beggar помильной__pomilnoy user fee .
150	24	not surprisingly , this idea appeals to urban liberals , because with the help of taxes can be changed the nature of travel for reducing road congestion and greenhouse gas emissions , for example .
150	25	authorities planned in california could be waiting for this system in the development of strategies to achieve the ambitious targets set by the laws of this state to combat global warming .
150	26	however , a republican member of the house of representatives bill shuster ( pa . ) , chairman of the house transportation committee , said that he , too , sees the system as the most viable long-term alternatives .
150	27	advocates of the free market to fund “ reason ” also delighted from what drivers would pay for each mile .
150	28	“ it is not just a tax which will go into a black hole , ” said adrian moore , vice president of political affairs of reason .
150	29	people directly pay for what they receive .
150	30	this movement also is supported by two former ministers of transport of the united states , which in 2011 urged congress to move in the direction of помильной__pomilnoy payment .
150	31	the us senate approved last year in a pilot project at a cost of 90 million dollars , which would have involved about 10,000 vehicles .
150	32	but leaders of the house of representatives rejected this proposal due to fears of rural legislators representing voters who in everyday life have often come many miles to get to work or to the city .
150	33	a few states and cities , nevertheless , go on that path independently .
150	34	the greatest enthusiasm проявляется__proyavlyaetsya in oregon , where for participation in the largest experiment in the country get 5,000 drivers .
150	35	these drivers will soon be paying staff for miles driven instead of the tax on gasoline .
150	36	in nevada , a pilot project has been completed .
150	37	in new york , he is seen .
150	38	illinois опробует__oprobuet it on a limited basis involving lorries .
150	39	and the i-95 coalition , which includes departments of transport 17 states of the east coast ( including maryland , пенсильванию__pensilvaniyu , вирджинию__virdzhiniyu and florida ) , studying how they can spend these changes .
150	40	this concept has not received universal acceptance .
150	41	in nevada , where about 50 cars volunteers were recently equipped with these devices , drivers were concerned that the government can track their every step .
150	42	“ concerns about the “ big brother ” and such things is a big problem , ” said алауддин__alauddin khan , head of the issues of strategy and management efficiency at the department for transport , the state of nevada .
150	43	it was not what people wanted .
150	44	when the tests were underway , a branch of the american civil liberties union in nevada warned on its website : “ will be very easy to convert these devices in full tracking devices . ”
150	45	there is no need to create a huge , huge technological infrastructure , which will inevitably be extended for the storage of records about the everyday movements of individual citizens .
150	46	nevada is one of several states where we are soul searching low-cost technology that would allow authorities to keep state accounting проезжаемых__proezzhaemykh car miles , but no information about the place and time .
150	47	if you can do it , khan said , society will feel more calm .
150	48	the search for this technology led some state agencies to a small , young company in california called true mileage .
150	49	initially , this company has been attempting to collect state taxes .
150	50	she sought to enter the booming market of automobile insurance , in which drivers pay based on mileage .
150	51	but the device , which it began testing , attract designers roads because they do not use gps and provide a limited amount of information , periodically loaded with modem .
150	52	“ people will be more inclined to do it if you do not track their speed and does not track their location , ” said ryan morrison , executive director of the true mileage .
150	53	it was a few big mistakes in some of these pilot programs in the state .
150	54	there is much less expensive and less recurring ways to do it .
150	55	drivers in oregon designers are experimenting with provision of various options .
150	56	they can choose the device with or without gps .
150	57	or they could just abandon devices , deciding instead to pay a fixed fee based on the average number of miles that can ride all residents of the state .
150	58	in other places , they hope to sell the idea of настороженной__nastorozhennoy public , forcing the device to do more , not less .
150	59	the new york city transportation officials are seeking to develop налогооблагающее__nalogooblagayushchee device which will also take payment for parking lot meters , to provide “ pay as ездишь__ezdish " insurance pool and gather data about the speed in real time from other drivers , and that motorists could use to avoid traffic jams .
150	60	“ motorists will involve the benefits they offer , ” the document says urban design .
150	61	some designers transport systems , however , think about not whether all talk about paying a huge помильной__pomilnoy just a distraction .
150	62	in urban transport commission in the san francisco bay area officials say that congress could easily overcome bankruptcy trust fund the construction of highways , raising taxes on gasoline .
150	63	an additional lump sum or annual tax would charge drivers of hybrid cars and other persons whose vehicles do not use a lot of gasoline that they paid their fair share .
150	64	“ there is no need for radical surgical intervention , when all you need to do is take an aspirin , ” said randy рентшлер__rentshler , director of the commission on legislation and public relations .
150	65	if we do this , hundreds of millions of drivers will worry about his private life , and many other things .


151	1	pope francis named a top cardinals in february
151	2	pope francis in san возведет__vozvedet new cardinals of the catholic church for the first time of his service on 22 february , as the vatican announced on thursday .
151	3	cardinals are the senior clergy in the catholic church after the pope , and they elect popes , so francis will appoint its first group of people who eventually will participate in the choice of his successor .
151	4	currently there are 201 cardinal .
151	5	however , after the cardinal 80th age he can no longer take part in the election of the pope is a prerogative of the 120 " кардиналов-выборщиков__kardinalov-vyborshchikov . ”
151	6	announcing the news , vatican spokesman father federico lombardi said that before the ceremony will be held at san meeting all current cardinals , known as консистория__konsistoriya .
151	7	“ pope francis decided to inform us of its decision to convene консисторию__konsistoriyu in february in order to facilitate planning of other meetings with the participation of the cardinals from all over the world , ” said lombardi .
151	8	jack valero of the catholic voices , ” said that by february number кардиналов-выборщиков__kardinalov-vyborshchikov will likely fall .
151	9	he said that usually the pope calls cardinals as much as necessary to again bring the number of кардиналов-выборщиков__kardinalov-vyborshchikov to 120 , and so the cardinals over the age of 80 years as he chooses .
151	10	консистория__konsistoriya next year will have great significance because it will be the first since the election of francis , in march of this year , according to valero .
151	11	at the moment there is a kind of bias in favour of europe and especially in favor of italy .
151	12	“ it will be interesting to see whether the cardinals would appoint the new pope from other regions of the world to restore the balance , ” he said .
151	13	in south america , home to 40 percent of catholics , but they are insignificant number of cardinals .
151	14	it will also be the first selected cardinals since the formation of the council of cardinals francis — the group of eight cardinals from around the world , which is to seek ways of reforming the church .
151	15	in the past , the pope decided everything themselves .
151	16	“ now that francis has chosen eight cardinals to help him , ” said valero .
151	17	he said that “ it is entirely possible ” that francis will turn to кардиналам__kardinalam for advice .
151	18	but we have not been in this situation before that — all of it for us for the first time .
151	19	valero said the pope usually built in the position of cardinal bishops from large parishes , but francis “ full of surprises — however we do not know whom he names . ”


152	1	in ivanovo opened vii interregional exhibition " " medicine and health
152	2	interregional exhibition - medicine and health - 2013 " was opened on the basis of entertaining complex " olympia " .
152	3	the grand opening event participated the first deputy chairman of the government of the ivanovo region olga khasbulatov .
152	4	the exhibition presents the work of regional fiscal health of ivanovo region as well as commercial medical institutions of the regions of central russia .
152	5	the exhibition will include seminars , round tables , presentations .
152	6	during the exhibition , organised mobile complex ( full diagnosis ) , mobile флюорографа__flyuorografa , blood transfusion stations .
152	7	everyone will be able to receive free diagnostic procedures , consultations of specialists , to take part in the workshop of medical physical , familiarize yourself with the range of services provided in hospitals in the ivanovo region .
152	8	in addition , during the exhibition takes place the day of the donor .
152	9	the general concept of the exhibition " - medicine and health - 2013 " direction in preventive medicine , promoting healthy lifestyles .
152	10	the exhibition presents the medical goods and services , equipment , pharmaceutical and medical products that enhance the quality of life .
152	11	the main directions of exhibition were : development of cooperation with manufacturers and suppliers of medical equipment of ivanovo region and of regions of russia ; a demonstration of medical goods and services , equipment , pharmaceutical and medical drugs that boost the quality of life ; establishment of business contacts between medical institutions of ivanovo region .


153	1	the tax for foreign property owners will lead to the fact that london bubble bursts
153	2	the treasury has carried out a preliminary evaluation measures for the tax on capital gains , but awaits a final decision from mr osborne , who in 2012 budget introduced the rate of state duty in the amount of 7 % for homes costing more than £ 2 million and annual payments for buyers who decide to own homes in partnership , not as individuals .
153	3	currently госпошлина__gosposhlina on residential real estate in parts of westminster , kensington and chelsea , rose from 708 million pounds in the 2012 / 13 financial year already exceeds the total amount for northern ireland , wales , scotland , the northeast , the northwest , йоркширу__yorkshiru and хамберу__khamberu taken together .
153	4	mr cook said : “ after the state duty for expensive houses and the introduction of related legislation against evasion is very difficult to argue that taxation of expensive properties is undervalued regardless of the impact of the obsolete municipal tax system . ”
153	5	“ but this move may cause some foreign investors will be reluctant to buy properties in london or its current owners do not want to sell it , ” he added .
153	6	the cost of first-class real estate - the top 5 – 10 % of the housing market at a price — in the affluent south-west london belt , which stretches from фулхэма__fulkhema to wimbledon , increased by a record 11.8 % over the past year .
153	7	according to research company savills , prices in central london continued to demonstrate strong growth of 5.6 % in annual terms , but their eclipsed actively developing the domestic market ” with the surge of prices in the southwest , in the north ( 7.4 % ) and in the east ( 6.5 % ) of the city .


154	1	the next meeting of the association of mechanicians of the tyumen region was based on ялуторовского__yalutorovskogo automobile plant .
154	2	as part of the event , there was a presentation of the new line on the production line pipes of steel .
154	3	as the company told commercial director denis грибанов__gribanov , in 2011 , with the emergence of a new owner held marketing research to study the market for steel structures in the tyumen region .
154	4	it turned out that the region consumes more than 50 thousand tons line pipes per month .
154	5	after that it was decided to change the profile of the factory and installation of the equipment for their production .
154	6	already this year , shipped more than 7 thousand tons of the manufactured products .
154	7	the investment in the factory amounted to more than 120 million руб-лей__rub-ley , - said denis грибанов__gribanov .
154	8	in october , launched a new mill , which helps increase the product range .
154	9	the plant produces a fine profile of pipes , which is used for теп-личного__tep-lichnogo farms , small forms of construction and furniture industries , as well as large - for the construction industry .
154	10	plan to reach the level of production of 50 thousands tons of production per year , which would be about 10 per cent of its consumption in the tyumen region .
154	11	despite the transition to another activity , the number of employees at the plant decreased 't - now it is 157 people in plans for the purchase of new equipment , increased staff even more than 50 employees .
154	12	on the enterprise there is a retraining of the staff and the experts are from existing .
154	13	next year we plan to introduce the new unit longitudinal cutting of the steel with a thickness of up to five millimeters , which would reduce the cost of production , and another camp , with the speed of the production of pipes to 47 meters per minute .
154	14	by the end of 2014 , at the company are going to master production of tubes , which are used in the housing and public utility sector .
154	15	the company aims to close to 70 per cent of the needs of the tyumen region in this production .
154	16	the deputy director of the department of investment policy leonid остроумов__ostroumov , referring to the leaders of manufacturing , and advised to focus on modernization of machine-building enterprises .
154	17	to this aim , and forms of state support for industry , which include compensation for interest rates on loans for the purchase of new equipment and the cost of leasing it .
154	18	in the current year to allocate for these purposes provided for 150 mln rubles , two-thirds of that amount has already been spent .
154	19	the latest commission , which will consider the subsidy contracts , taking documents from companies until 15 november .
154	20	in addition , the budget are reimbursed expenses for the participation of local manufacturers in international fairs .
154	21	the budget for the coming year provides the means of 150 million rubles , which can be used to offset leasing payments and loans for the purchase of new equipment .
154	22	5 million will be allocated to participate in trade fairs , 3 million - on energy efficiency programme .
154	23	falling to 72 million roubles of funds for compensation ordered and paid for equipment , which is produced in the south of tyumen region for oil and gas complex .
154	24	according to leonid остроумова__ostroumova , in the long term , this form of support will be stopped , as motive for her compensation was the introduction of a tax on mining , which oil companies paid to the local budget .
154	25	currently they do not become subsidies and direct supply obligations in the region .
154	26	in view of this , the government believes the priority directly support of industrial enterprises , rather than financing them through the oil industry .
154	27	the aid budget will be associated with investment projects which will be implemented on the production .
154	28	many business executives expressed concern in connection with the situation in relations with have claimed .
154	29	bailout on their закупаемое__zakupaemoe equipment industry is competitive advantage and the south of tyumen region , with its repeal is hard to compete on price with an average strip of russia , where more than cheap labor .
154	30	in addition , the question of succession is unclear with the new owner of tnk-bp - rosneft company , which does not yet place their orders for the tyumen enterprises .
154	31	the agreement on implementation of the uvat project expires in 2013 , and his request for an extension was not received .
154	32	currently , the enterprise south area who specialize in equipment for the oil and gas sector , cannot form a portfolio of orders for the next year .
154	33	there remains an open question whether taxes will come from oil extracted in уватском__uvatskom area in the budget of the region or they will be paid at the place of registration of the new owner of the deposits .


155	1	in chelyabinsk passed ii congress of the peoples of the southern urals .
155	2	the forum is timed for the day of national unity , restore 400-летию__400-letiyu russian statehood and mark the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the constitution of russia .
155	3	in the work of the congress was attended by delegations from all cities and areas of the region , representatives of various ethnic cultural associations , religious faiths , legislative and executive power is a total of about 350 people .
155	4	the forum aims to strengthen interethnic harmony .
155	5	here we can show an example not only to other regions , but also to other countries .
155	6	we have no discrepancies and differences .
155	7	we live in a full understanding , " theophanes argues , metropolitan of chelyabinsk and zlatoust .
155	8	in the course of the meeting discussed a number of issues , including fostering patriotism , cultural cooperation .
155	9	by the results of the congress adopted the resolution .
155	10	the informal part of the forum continued in the theatre of opera and ballet .
155	11	here the exhibition opened national-cultural associations in the chelyabinsk region .


156	1	syria has destroyed their means of production of chemical weapons , the watchdog group says
156	2	syria has destroyed the main equipment for the production of chemical weapons and ammunition with toxic gas , said on thursday the international watchdog group , while fierce clashes raged in the north of the country , close to one of the objects , which is believed to store toxic substances .
156	3	also on thursday , a group of syrian activists said that more than 120 000 people were killed since the start of the civil war in the country almost three years ago .
156	4	a statement by the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons was made one day before
156	5	the deadline of 1 november , installed this organisation based in the hague to damascus destroyed or “ made неработоспособными__nerabotosposobnymi ” all the means of production of chemical weapons and mechanisms that allow chemicals to mix with the acquisition of poison gas and filling munitions with them .
156	6	the completion of what is essentially the initial phase of destruction is an important milestone in an ambitious timetable , which aims to destroy all chemical weapons of damascus by the middle of 2014 .
156	7	the destruction of the equipment means syria can no longer make new chemical weapons .
156	8	yet damascus has yet to begin destroying existing weapons and supplies .
156	9	the country is believed to have about 1,000 metric tons of chemical agents and weapons , including agents mustard gas and make nerve gas sarin .
156	10	this statement was made during the fighting on thursday in the town of al-safira , which experts say is the facility for the production of chemical weapons , as well as the location of his store , reports based in britain , the syrian center for human rights .
156	11	the group of activists , who watched the loss through a network of activists in syria , said on thursday that killed 120 296 people .
156	12	of this number , as it was said , 61 067 are civilians , including children 6365 .
156	13	on the part of the government , said the group , 29 954 people are members of the armed forces of president bashar al-assad 18 678 are pro-government fighters and 187 - lebanese hezbollah militants .
156	14	also among the dead , as stated in the statement were presented army defector and about 5375 opposition fighters , many of them foreigners .
156	15	according to un estimates of 25 july , 100,000 have been killed in the conflict since march 2011 .
156	16	since then , this figure did not update .
156	17	the conflict forced about 2 million people to flee the country .
156	18	assad ’ s troops for several weeks in сафире__safire fought with insurgents , many of whom are linked to al qaeda groups .
156	19	the center said thursday there were casualties on both sides , but did not give a specific data .
156	20	the fighting underscored the dangers faced by the inspectors on chemical weapons , perhaps within the tight schedule of his mission to wean syria from toxic arsenal , in the midst of the ongoing civil war .
156	21	in a statement , the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons , which is working in close cooperation with the united nations , said that her team was “ pleased now that she had seen and verified swept away all the declared syria critically important means of production and mixing / filling equipment . ”
156	22	she added that “ no additional inspection activities currently not planned . ”
156	23	earlier this week , the inspectors said they completed the first round of testing , having visited 21 of the 23 sites damascus declared .
156	24	they have not been able to visit two places for security reasons , said the inspectors .
156	25	on thursday , the opcw said that both places were , according to syria , “ abandoned and ... the objects of the program of chemical weapons , located in them , were relocated to other seats declared , which were checked . ”
156	26	could not immediately find out whether сафире__safire was an object in one of two places , which opcw inspectors have been unable to visit .
156	27	syria presented a plan for the complete destruction of their chemical weapons , which must be approved by next month , the executive committee of the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons .
156	28	“ i salute the courage and courage that you all have shown in the most complex mission ever attempted this organization , ” said the director general of the observer group ahmet узюмджю__uzyumdzhyu in comments published by the opcw .
156	29	already the third year civil war сталкивает__stalkivaet insurgents , mostly sunni muslims , with the government of assad and his security forces , which consist of members of his alawite sect , a branch of shia islam .
156	30	as for other events , head of the centre rami abdurrahman said was a strong blast on wednesday at the site of syria ’ s air defenses in the coastal province of latakia .
156	31	the cause of the explosion is unknown , he said .


157	1	report : obama election staff viewed the exclusion of biden in favor of hillary clinton
157	2	according to the new york times , the closest advisers of president barack obama secretly considered the possibility of replacing vice president joe biden candidacy of hillary clinton in the voter list of 2012 .
157	3	this discovery is the most spectacular sensation of all books expected mark galperin and john хайлеманна__khaylemanna on campaign 2012 " rates удвоены__udvoeny : game change 2012 " .
157	4	the upcoming edition of the times received a copy of the book to the exit and reported on thursday night that close aides of the president held a “ large-scale research in a focus group and opinion polls at the end of 2011 , ” to assess whether the exclusion of biden help raise угасающие__ugasayushchie hopes for obama ’ s re-election .
157	5	according to the political observer the times jonathan martin , the book gives a detailed description of the attempts by senior officials , campaign staff and the white house , namely the former white house chief of staff bill daley to assess what effect the vote will have on the appointment of former secretary of state clinton ’ s vice-president .
157	6	possible replacement was a mystery , carefully guarded election headquarters in chicago and in the oval office .
157	7	only six of the president ’ s closest advisers — including daly , the former head of obama ’ s campaign staff jim мессину__messinu and former senior white house advisers david аксельрода__akselroda and david плуффа__pluffa — knew that replacement considered .
157	8	the book " rates удвоены__udvoeny " argues that daly was the initiator attempts to replace biden , despite their “ close personal relationship ” , but ultimately abandoned this step when their data showed that adding clinton to the electoral list is not “ significantly improves the chances of obama . ”
157	9	in an interview with martin daly confirmed that the administration really considered to replace biden clinton .
157	10	“ i was actively spoken out for consideration of many things , and this was one of them , ” said the daily newspaper .
157	11	you must remember that at that point the president was in awful shape , so we thought : “ oh god , what do we do ? ”
157	12	although daly described the study as “ necessary ” test representative , martin told cnn that anderson куперу__kuperu election staff enough was invested in the study , whether this step dividends on a vote .
157	13	“ campaign headquarters are not spending such sums of money on surveys and focus groups if they do not consider something seriously , ” said martin in the ak 360 .
157	14	it is unclear , however , whether obama knew that his team studied the possibility of replacement .
157	15	martin told cnn that he asked daley knew whether his then boss about possible перетасовке__peretasovke .
157	16	although daly and said that he did not think the president “ was aware ” of a possible replacement , the former head of the administration acknowledged that “ perhaps ” , obama knew .
157	17	martin added that rates " удвоены__udvoeny " does not give a clear answer to the question of whether the results of the political table 've sensing to obama .
157	18	cooper asked martin , seriously whether he believes that obama did not know about the research capabilities of excluded biden from the electoral list .
157	19	“ perhaps , ” martin said .


158	1	committee head artur grigoryants контрольно-дисциплинарного__kontrolno-distsiplinarnogo rfu reported that " kuban " оштрафована__oshtrafovana on 500 thousand rubles , passes from the home of football correspondent " se " philip папенков__papenkov .
158	2	such sanctions in respect of krasnodar club applied for arson flag of dagestan and the fans in the stands during the home match against 14th tour " anji " .
158	3	at the meeting were representatives of both clubs , the man from рфпл__rfpl .
158	4	we have explored all available materials .
158	5	for the behavior of the audience неправометное__nepravometnoe " kuban " оштрафована__oshtrafovana on 500 thousand rubles .


159	1	legislative bans forced russians to drink less beer
159	2	the russian beer in a bad mood .
159	3	according to their прикидкам__prikidkam , consumption of beer in the country in the coming year will remain at the same level , and it is at best .
159	4	although businessmen initially counted on growth .
159	5	for the current year is unfortunate for them : sales fell by 7 per cent .
159	6	told about all this , the head of one of the largest beer companies of the country , chairman of the union of russian beer isaac шепс__sheps at iii annual conference of the institute of adam smith " commodities of daily demand in russia , which just ended in moscow .
159	7	it discussed the state regulation of the market .
159	8	from 2008 to 2012 , the russian beer market has shrunk by 18 per cent , as in recent years , the country has seen a significant strengthening of the regulation of the brewing industry in terms of production and sales of beer - a drink with a low alcohol content , - informed listeners шепс__sheps .
159	9	in no country in the world is not such a hard limit beer market , unpredictable introducing all new нелогичных__nelogichnykh prohibitions , which ostensibly обосновываются__obosnovyvayutsya struggles with alcohol abuse .
159	10	brewer complained that many legislative bans , designed to reduce the level of alcohol abuse , does not have special influence , nevertheless appear regularly all the new initiatives .
159	11	all the hurt on beer makers hit with ban introduced this year to sell alcohol at kiosks .
159	12	“ we just lost 35 thousand customers , ” said isaac шепс__sheps .
159	13	for the next year two pivovarov had forecast .
159	14	the optimistic - the one that said шепс__sheps : selling drink пенного__pennogo continues at the same level .
159	15	even pessimistic - would fall by 2-3 per cent .
159	16	to maintain their profit , businessmen are forced to quit from varieties , aimed at the mass consumer in class " premium " : beer will be smaller , but it will be more expensive .
159	17	meanwhile , radical consequences from falling sales with a small amount of alcohol is not in sight .
159	18	" on my observations , the level of alcohol abuse remains approximately at the same level , said alexey врач-нарколог__vrach-narkolog hundreds .
159	19	true , increased the share of patients who use surrogates alcoholic drinks , as well as those who sat down on " " спиртосодержащие__spirtosoderzhashchie тонизирующие__toniziruyushchie drinks like " jaguars , whereas 10 years ago it was prevailed " " beer alcoholism .


160	1	why would the construction of the tpu in moscow
160	2	with each passing year , city authorities promise to arrange more транспортно-пересадочных__transportno-peresadochnykh knots ( tpu ) .
160	3	until 2020 , it is planned to enter into operation 255 tpu .
160	4	what actually is the project of understanding our correspondent .
160	5	a couple of months ago the smolenskaya metro " " арбатско-покровской__arbatsko-pokrovskoy line a construction fence .
160	6	the caption read , which is construction of the project ’ s funding has node .
160	7	all this was very strange because near smolensk " " no land transport does not stop and , therefore , cannot move on him .
160	8	to get to the nearest trolleybus stop on the garden ring , one must overcome about 130 meters , including land crossing карманицкий__karmanitskiy lane .
160	9	now the smolensk " " almost all finished .
160	10	faded flower stall , демонтирован__demontirovan stand for newspapers , and the pavement in front of the entrance to брусчаткой__bruschatkoy .
160	11	here is the entire transport hub .
160	12	транспортно-пересадочные__transportno-peresadochnye nodes are плоскостными__ploskostnymi and capital - explain in the press service of the moscow department of transport .
160	13	capital tpu while are not present .
160	14	but плоскостные__ploskostnye suggest the construction of the parking lots of shopping sites , hindering the movement of passengers , the creation of small architectural forms and refurbishment .
160	15	actually , even плоскостными__ploskostnymi tpu do not forwarding company and professional благоустроители__blagoustroiteli overhaul of department of the city of moscow .
160	16	hub is not necessarily a complicated structure , explains the director of institute of economy of transport and the transport policy of the higher school of economics , mikhail блинкин__blinkin .
160	17	sometimes a roof over his head and the scoreboard , оповещающих__opoveshchayushchikh about the time of arrival of transport .
160	18	here , for example , the metro " yasenevo " recently opened a full-fledged плоскостной__ploskostnoy interchange junction .
160	19	even without the canopies , but with перехватывающими__perekhvatyvayushchimi car parks and the scoreboard indicating when придет__pridet bus .
160	20	but in pursuit of the record number of officials at tpu all that neither попадя__popadya .
160	21	back in 2011 , city hall planned to build at all about all 151 node , 59 of them with capital construction .
160	22	now , in plans by 2020 , there are as many as 255 tpu .
160	23	some 200 of them even promise to pass this year .
160	24	although the city has the program of development of tpu 't indicated no qualitative criteria - notes alexander morozov , co-chairman of the public organization " city and transport " .
160	25	report on the number of objects , but the quality of the transplant on each of them often deteriorates .
160	26	the criteria , according to the expert , there must be two : first - cutting the time of transplant , second , convenience .
160	27	first of all an opportunity to change the type of transport , not going out in the rain .
160	28	in moscow the same by arrangement of the tpu sometimes goes in exactly the opposite .
160	29	a vivid example of metro vdnkh " " .
160	30	earlier , commuter buses to the yaroslavsky highway came to the square in front of the main entrance to the exhibition .
160	31	now they have to stop on the opposite side of the street ярославки__yaroslavki cosmonauts .
160	32	farther from the subway , much further from монорельса__monorelsa , but closer to residential homes .
160	33	the gift that residents do not want bus under windows and complained in every possible instance .
160	34	with capital tpu in moscow did not immediately задалось__zadalos .
160	35	the first of them started five years ago , the subway " planernaya " .
160	36	the project aims to be a model .
160	37	and really it was an example of how interchange node , left to extremely инвесторам__investoram , turns into a banal shopping centre .
160	38	no , there are canopy перроны__perrony for buses , not to go from the subway in the rain , and three floors of parking lots .
160	39	true , химкинским__khimkinskim троллейбусам__trolleybusam № № 202 and 203 seats in moscow will not give fundamentally .
160	40	how strange they pushed them away from the metro .
160	41	but the space under the trade more left .
160	42	one of only 32 clothing store , and generally have almost everything - from pet products to the showroom .
160	43	well , in fact , who suddenly from bus passengers need to buy a new car on the road ?
160	44	we have , when building overhaul tpu , somehow always turns out shopping centre .
160	45	recently , the situation has reached its logical conclusion , when part of the building decided to give at the market .
160	46	now on the third floor of the tpu " planernaya " among размеченных__razmechennykh parking spaces on the floor goes бойкая__boykaya trade .
160	47	chinese vegetables , spices , jeans , not russian speech and security guards , angrily поглядывающие__poglyadyvayushchie on our photographer .
160	48	interchange knot finally turned into a bazaar .
160	49	the fact of the matter is that before the metro " planernaya " was market , but his demolished .
160	50	and in the prefecture of traffickers and everything within dui allowed on перехватывающую__perekhvatyvayushchuyu parking пересадочного__peresadochnogo node .
160	51	still , because of the high prices there are always empty .
160	52	the same ridiculous that the market demolished in order to build in its place ... a new плоскостной__ploskostnoy tpu .
160	53	this is castling .
160	54	the kaluzhskaya metro " " distance approach from lobby metro bus was 50 meters , says alexander morozov .
160	55	after the construction of the trade center , allegedly tpu , the distance increased to 170 meters .
160	56	to sit in the bus , it is necessary to pass through the shopping centre .
160	57	after 22 hours , when it is closed , must work around him under the open sky .
160	58	however , construction on " планерной__planernoy " and " kaluga " soon look like the problem .
160	59	in the middle of september , the commission approved градостроительно-земельная__gradostroitelno-zemelnaya mayor planning solutions for the first eight capital tpu .
160	60	four of them will be 25-этажными__25-etazhnymi , not counting two or three underground lines .
160	61	the monster will grow the metro " tushino " , there will be 418,7 thousand square metres of space .
160	62	representatives of railway stations directorate of russian railways , responsible for the construction of the tpu from metro , already told journalists : in future многоэтажках__mnogoetazhkakh will contain shops , hotels and apartments .
160	63	at the same time , officials claim that storied parking zay ­ mut from one third to a half square .
160	64	take for example the " folk " garages .
160	65	for example , the garage for 258 машино-мест__mashino-mest , which recently built on the international street , has an area of 8015 square meters .
160	66	that means , for the thousands of car parking in 2.6 " 've петровско-разумовской__petrovsko-razumovskoy " need on the order of 80,000 " " squares .
160	67	this is less than a third of the махины__makhiny , which gather there to build .
160	68	let one or two floors will be spent on various перроны__perrony for buses .
160	69	remains of at least 150 thousand square metres of commercial real estate .
160	70	and this , in a minute , almost two pishan county .
160	71	if capital tpu at stations and railroad station building , the rest of the site will explore метрополитеновцы__metropolitenovtsy .
160	72	they also promised that there will be a lot of objects " " functional purpose , including hotels , offices and even sports halls .
160	73	by the way , in the moscow department of property recently , told journalists that developing a draft decree , under which investors would be able to apply for a plot for tpu directly to the officials .
160	74	without any competitions .
160	75	because , they say , that the transport issues for the city - a priority .
160	76	the ideal tpu is , for example , the harvard " " in boston or " спадайна__spadayna " in toronto , is confident alexander morozov .
160	77	there , trolleys and trams descend underground to the metro and the distance from the approach of subway cars before the tram is only 50 metres without access to the street .
160	78	around no unnecessary trade .
160	79	but moscow officials throws in the extreme .
160	80	either we will build nothing , or too отгрохаем__otgrokhaem 25 storeys with offices and apartments .


161	1	oil has fallen in price to $ 96 a barrel .
161	2	the price of oil continued to fall , and on friday , when worries about the education of large reserves overshadow a message indicating that энергоемкий__energoemkiy china ’ s manufacturing sector is gaining strength .
161	3	reference sort of oil the u.s. in december delivery fell 14 cents , and its price was $ 96,24 a barrel at late morning european time in electronic trading on the new york mercantile exchange .
161	4	on thursday , the contract fell 39 cents , which in total amounted to a fall in prices for october to 5.8 percent .
161	5	rich reserves of oil have on its price in recent weeks .
161	6	the energy department said wednesday that u.s. supplies increased 4.1 million barrels in the past week .
161	7	for five weeks 此外 пополнились__popolnilis more than 25 million barrels .
161	8	but on friday emerged pointing to a possible increase in demand , according to two reports of chinese industry , продемонстрировавшим__prodemonstrirovavshim spike in her activity .
161	9	this indicates that china ’ s recovery can continue to gain strength after the growth rate in the third quarter rose to 7.8 percent after twenty years as a minimum in the previous quarter .
161	10	brent oil — reference strain international oil used by refineries and also enterprises in the united states — has 26 cents to $ 108,58 a barrel on the intercontinental exchange in london .


162	1	in yekaterinburg offender killed two sisters and burned their bodies
162	2	police in yekaterinburg leads wanted criminal brutally расправившегося__raspravivshegosya with two sisters .
162	3	after the killing , their bodies burned .
162	4	as reported the press-service of gu mvd " new " region in the russian federation in the sverdlovsk region , on the eve of the day in kirovskiy district of the capital after extinguishing a fire in a two-bedroom apartment , located in a residential building on the street of the ural , discovered the bodies of two women with signs of violent death .
162	5	soon the identities of those killed were installed .
162	6	it turned out that these sisters , one of them is a resident of yekaterinburg 44 years , the second - 33-летняя__33-letnyaya inhabitant of orenburg region .
162	7	a burnt apartment , they took a few days ago .
162	8	his investigation took personal control of the chief of police region mikhail borodin .
162	9	the internal affairs bodies are working out different versions of the killings , check the alibi earlier судимых__sudimykh citizens and those inclined to such acts .
162	10	in addition , is what the women rented an apartment and where they lived before , what they did , with whom relations have maintained .


163	1	pamela anderson chops off her iconic blond curls , and for the first time shows his radical new short hairstyle .
163	2	pam blond curls became famous thanks to her role in эротическом__eroticheskom series “ baywatch . ”
163	3	pamela anderson — the latest from celebrity fans шокировавших__shokirovavshikh radically new hairdo .
163	4	crumb from “ the rescuers ” malibu preferred their long bright platinum hair short cut .
163	5	this district the actress demonstrated its latest image during a stroll in los angeles on wednesday , and also shared a photo on her twitter page .
163	6	short hair appeared at this beautiful blonde for the first time in 20 years , and we liked it непритязательное__neprityazatelnoe change .
163	7	what do you think about the hair пэмми__pemmi ?
163	8	share with us your thoughts in the comments below .


164	1	coach " avant-garde " vladimir чебатуркин__chebaturkin , speaking about preparing his team for the game against salavat khl regular championship " " , noted that омичи__omichi conducted a thorough analysis of the destruction from metallurg magnitogorsk " " .
164	2	the specialist stressed that " vanguard " need to give increased attention to the game on defense .
164	3	we watched the video of the game against metallurg magnitogorsk " " leads official website " avant-garde " words чебатуркина__chebaturkina .
164	4	- missed a lot of washers , not very pleasant moment .
164	5	admittance because of their mistakes , because the default game assignments .
164	6	we knew that the opponent is performers .
164	7	according to statistics , there have been five attacks - with the three-goal we scored .
164	8	a very good realization .
164	9	these errors were taken into account when preparing for today ’ s game ?
164	10	we are with the guys every match carefully analyze talk after the game , getting ready for the new competitor .
164	11	the most important thing is that the installation was accomplished .
164	12	all saw the first period of the game against metallurg " " .
164	13	you are playing the task , and the score was 2 : 0 .
164	14	missed a goal in " раздевалку__razdevalku " - and in the third period started to make mistakes .
164	15	given how hard did the game , saw no point in connecting defenders .
164	16	we must defend the whole team .
164	17	now the " avant-garde " long home series matches go through the day , the team had fatigue ?
164	18	all the teams are in the same conditions .
164	19	the key now is the implementation of their moments and performing the game tasks .
164	20	ice hockey is an emotional game , if the installation at hand - everything is solved not so difficult .


165	1	bombardier profit declines with falling supplies and more orders for planes
165	2	corporation of bombardier , the canadian aircraft and train maker , reported on thursday a net profit reduction on the 15 percent under the influence of уменьшившегося__umenshivshegosya quantity of orders and deliveries aircraft in the third quarter and problems with contracts in its rail division .
165	3	located in montreal , bombardier also has not published any data for flight testing of its new cseries aircraft and provided no new information about whether implemented ambitious plans for the introduction of the aircraft into commercial operation by next september .
165	4	after the first flight of a prototype of the aircraft , held about six months ago , he was flying only three times , that raises questions about whether testing phase on schedule .
165	5	the results have failed forecasts and led to the shares falling more than 8 per cent on the toronto stock exchange .
165	6	cameron доерксен__doerksen , analyst at national bank financial , on thursday lowered its estimate of “ above среднерыночного__srednerynochnogo ” to “ среднерыночного__srednerynochnogo ” because of the belief that growth is limited shares in the next quarter or two .
165	7	“ although the reduction in the number of aircraft deliveries was largely predictable , we are , of course , disappointed by the transport department figures of profit , ” said доерксен__doerksen in review of the stock market .
165	8	we believe that bombardier gets new cseries orders as the flight test program .
165	9	nevertheless , if not in the coming months will be announced about new orders , we expect that the market will become more skeptical of the program .
165	10	bombardier hopes that the cseries family of aircraft will allow her to win a place in the lower price segment of the market , which is now dominated by boeing and airbus .
165	11	the first prototype aircraft was introduced in march , and for the first time made the flight in september after several months of delay .
165	12	but the firm cseries orders so far , not too much — 177 because potential buyers are waiting for the results of the flight tests to check the company ’ s claims about fuel efficiency and potential efficiency of the new liner .
165	13	just now there are 403 15 orders and agreements with the customers and operators .
165	14	chief executive officer pierre бодуан__boduan was confident that bombardier will reach its target of 300 firm orders by the time the first plane will be put into commercial operation .
165	15	also on thursday , executives assured analysts and the media that the program is progressing according to plan .
165	16	“ a test model of the aircraft had not stayed on the ground longer than expected , ” said бодуан__boduan during a conference call , adding that the aircraft downtime were planned ground tests and software updates .
165	17	all manufacturers plan to test different ways .
165	18	we decided to spend the first flight and make a break for updates , and so we did .
165	19	so will occur during the flight test programme .
165	20	the second of five test samples should take flight in the coming weeks , and all the rest will follow soon behind him , according to the company .
165	21	yet analysts are skeptical of the claim that the client will be able to start operating cseries aircraft through the 12 months after its first flight .
165	22	bombardier said that it evaluates the commissioning and provide new information in the next few months .
165	23	“ the slow pace of flight testing - though , apparently , and corresponds to the domestic schedule bombardier - reinforces our view that commissioning will be postponed until the first quarter of 2015 , ” said доерксен__doerksen .
165	24	in the third quarter , bombardier окончившемся__okonchivshemsya september 30 , net income fell to $ 147 million , or 8 cents per share , from $ 172 million , or 9 cents per share , last year .
165	25	adjusted earnings per share remained unchanged — 9 cents .
165	26	gross income fell slightly - from $ 4.20 to $ 4.1 billion .
165	27	analysts had expected a profit of 10 cents per share and gross income of $ 4.56 billion , according to thomson reuters i / b / e / s.
165	28	the fourth in the world ’ s second-largest aircraft maker announced that he had put 45 aircraft for the quarter , which is less than in the previous year — 57 .
165	29	the total number of orders fell from 83 to 26 aircraft .
165	30	order backlog aerospace research department totaled $ 32.9 billion at september 30 , re 't from 31 december .
165	31	“ in the field of aerospace results consistent with our goals , but a small number of incoming orders and general market conditions have become a troubling factor , ” said бодуан__boduan .
165	32	gross income on авиакосмическому__aviakosmicheskomu direction fell by 13 percent — to $ 2 billion .
165	33	bombardier , the world ’ s largest maker of trains , said that gross income in this sector grew by nearly 11 percent — to $ 2.1 billion .
165	34	order backlog in the transportation unit was $ 32.6 billion at september 30 , slightly higher than the 31 december .
165	35	the transport division income negatively impacted the problems with the execution of several large contracts .
165	36	management stated that in the fourth quarter will be presented a new plan for development .
165	37	bombardier shares of the company , which also announced that google chief financial officer patrick пичетт__pichett enters the board of directors , fell to 8.5 percent — up from $ 4,83 at auction in the middle of thursday .
165	38	brazilian company embraer sa , third in the world ’ s third-largest commercial aircraft manufacturer and the nearest competitor , bombardier said on thursday about reducing quarterly income on 10 percent .


166	1	the chairman of the krasnoyarsk court abducted certificate , hurting him in the head
166	2	unknown men attacked the chairman of krasnoyarsk court vladimir двоеконко__dvoekonko , stealing his identity .
166	3	according to interfax , late in the evening on wednesday , attackers struck the referee in the head and he lost consciousness .
166	4	when chairman 63-летний__63-letniy court came to himself , then discovered that he had dragged his service certificate .
166	5	the money and other values the criminals have not taken .
166	6	двоеконко__dvoekonko independently reached home , and the police asked only for the next day .
166	7	an investigation into the crime and searching for the perpetrators .


167	1	according to high-ranking officials , israeli warplanes attacking targets inside syria
167	2	a senior administration official , in an interview with fox news confirmed that israeli warplanes struck targets in the syrian port city of latakia on thursday evening .
167	3	the official did not specify that it was behind the goal , but said that at least one .
167	4	the associated press reported that the missiles were russian production sa-125 .
167	5	at least two times earlier this year israel painted the aerial attacks on cargo with missiles inside syria .


168	1	thorium is a new hope in nuclear power ?
168	2	governments in countries around the world continue to think over how to ensure energy needs .
168	3	the burning of hydrocarbons ( where they are ) negatively affects the climate .
168	4	renewables require large areas for a generation .
168	5	atomic энергетикa__energetika passes without something else , but leaves behind a lot of expensive in recycling .
168	6	scientists recently drew attention to thorium - yet another radioactive element of the system of mendeleev .
168	7	it is found around the world , and , according to experts , it leaves no splitting of the waste , which must be stored for centuries .


169	1	in the moscow metro will present new machines .
169	2	but to sell tickets to passengers they will not for money , but for squat .
169	3	one trip cost 30 rubles would cost a potential passenger in 30 приседаний__prisedaniy .
169	4	the number of приседаний__prisedaniy will calculate a device with the help of modern technology , itar-tass reports with reference to the press-service of the olympic committee of russia .
169	5	the first device will be installed at the vystavochnaya station " " 8 november 2013 .
169	6	in the presentation of new ticket спортоматов__sportomatov accept russian olympic committee president alexander zhukov and olympic champions gymnasts alexei nemov and elena замолодчикова__zamolodchikova .


170	1	spartak : for information about people who posted the fascist symbolism
170	2	on the official website of spartak moscow club statement appeared relatively appearance on the podium in yaroslavl fascist flag .
170	3	" on кубковом__kubkovom match " shinnik stadium " " spartak " 30 october unknown провокаторы__provokatory at the stadium in yaroslavl demonstrated the fascist symbols .
170	4	we address to all who has any reliable information about people who have committed a criminal offence , with the request to give her
170	5	" reward guaranteed " , said in a statement .
170	6	we are looking for fans , вывесивших__vyvesivshikh fascist flag in yaroslavl
170	7	recall that in the 1 / 16 finals cup 's " shinnik stadium " " spartak " interrupted several times due to unrest in the stands .
170	8	also on the sector of fans " spartacus " was highlighted by the fascist symbolism .
170	9	in the form of punishment " spartak " might spend about three games without spectators .
170	10	on friday there will be a meeting of the committee .
170	11	if you have information about who bore and вывесил__vyvesil this symbolism , please contact us .


171	1	two ymca employee accused of sexual crimes even before the accusations against jonathan lord , as it became known in the royal commission
171	2	two employees of the ymca nsw were accused of sexual offences against children to allegations in 2011 against the institutions of an employee to care for children in карингбахе__karingbakhe jonathan lord , told the royal commission on sexual violence against children .
171	3	but in his introductory statement , the commission was told that she “ never had affairs with cases of sexual abuse of children within their organization . ”
171	4	chief executive officer philip хэйра__kheyra asked about one case when the ymca worker was accused of crimes related to child pornography , and about another case when the gym instructor at ymca caringbah hall was convicted of sex crimes against children who were under his supervision in 1991 .
171	5	mr hare said gail furness lawyer оказывающему__okazyvayushchemu assistance commission that he knew about the first case , but did not know about the second .
171	6	he admitted that the ymca during his introductory speech for the commission also allowed inaccuracy , arguing that “ there were external validation of the ymca , ymca признавшие__priznavshie , that is in the firing line for the safety of the children . ”
171	7	the commission presented evidence suggests that ymca been advised that she was the second since the end of the four possible assessments on the results of the audit quality made the department of education and communities in august this year .
171	8	mr hare , who joined the ymca when he was 21 , admitted that he and нижестоящее__nizhestoyashchee leadership made misses , наняв__nanyav lord and also failed to provide a clear understanding of the staff of their obligations concerning reports of violations of the security policy of the children .
171	9	earlier this year , lord was convicted of sex crimes against 12 boys within two years of his work at the ymca .
171	10	he was jailed for at least six years .
171	11	but mr. hare has rejected the suggestion that the ymca corporate ethics forbid employees to report violations of the lord in the safety of children .
171	12	officers testified that they had observed violations , including what lord was alone with the children , personally was courting them , planted them in his lap , said that he likes one of them and allowed them to play with their mobile phone .
171	13	daniel оквелл__okvell , which was under the guidance of lord and asked her to teach her the protection of children , because she was worried about his behavior , certified that found jackie барнат__barnat , manager of the trusteeship over children of the ymca in карингбахе__karingbakhe , who was head of the lord , “ very frightening and often an inaccessible . ”
171	14	executive director , said he does not accept the explanation employees about what they were embarrassing to report the situation to its senior management .
171	15	rather , he said , their friendship with lord уводила__uvodila them from thinking about the need to report it .
171	16	mr hare said he presented to the board of the ymca new south wales their opinions about what lessons for organizations from the incident with джонатаном__dzhonatanom lord ” is not “ relates to the provision of information ” from employees , and the board agreed with him .
171	17	mr hare said that the decision to force staff to sign confidentiality agreements shortly after the charge was accepted by the general manager of the ymca trusteeship over children liam whitley .
171	18	he said it was meant to prevent evidence of corruption , but “ переусердствовали__pereuserdstvovali ” and this decision poorly implemented .
171	19	ymca new south wales was not safe for children organization during the work in her jonathan lord in between 2009 and 2011 , said commission expert on problems of corruption of children , professor stephen смолбоун__smolboun from griffith university .
171	20	he said that there were “ serious problems ” during the recruitment , selection , инструктировании__instruktirovanii , training of personnel and control over him .
171	21	the hearing postponed until 20 december .


172	1	film adaptation of the novel guillaume никлу__niklu denis diderot boasts exclusive performances and historical detail , but it is also harder than it should have been .
172	2	the film , the action of which is happening in france 1760-х__1760-kh 's , tells the grim story of the young aristocrats , sent in the monastery of his family .
172	3	when she starts to rebel , she is experiencing extreme cruelty at the hands of садистки-настоятельницы__sadistki-nastoyatelnitsy and becomes an object of erotic fantasies for others .
172	4	the film never sinks to the sensation of banality or — and this is the problem .
172	5	due to their grave solemnity narrative risks becoming a test like власяницы__vlasyanitsy and for the audience .


173	1	the u.s. intelligence community прослушивают__proslushivayut personal telephone pope
173	2	the vatican is under the watchful control of american intelligence .
173	3	the new documents from the collection of edward сноудена__snoudena show that us intelligence had been listening to all of the negotiations of the previous pope benedict , and now tightly опекает__opekaet pope francis .
173	4	his phone was monitored before he became head of the vatican .
173	5	under the supervision of the process was and the election of a new pope .
173	6	where in the united states had a special significance .
173	7	intelligence agency cell phones connecting to the cardinals who have gathered in rome to select the next pope .
173	8	прослушивались__proslushivalis and phones residence , where the participants lived the conclave .
173	9	american spies прослушивали__proslushivali all the major candidates on the papal throne , to prevent the emergence of junk on it for washington figures .
173	10	panorama magazine " " writes that " large ear usa " continued to intercept conversations прелатов__prelatov until the completion of the conclave on march 12 .
173	11	it is said that in the united states since 2005 have argentine archbishop берголио__bergolio as a future pope .
173	12	american intelligence also отлеживала__otlezhivala negotiations related to the election of the new president of the vatican bank .
173	13	the italian magazine writes that in rome the u.s. embassy continues to operate secret group of operatives of the cia and nsa , extracting information about policies and financial flows .
173	14	in turn , the vatican примирительно__primiritelno announced that he does not care about the american " " the wire , even if it happens .
173	15	leadership from the united states of the holy fathers have no secrets .


174	1	ben гринмен__grinmen : the tenth anniversary of the new york comedy festival : the new yorker
174	2	you can safely argue that new york is a place of birth стендап-комедии__stendap-komedii in america : almost a hundred years ago , musical artist frank fay entertainer , who has worked in the palace theatre on broadway , began telling jokes directly to the public in a manner of speaking .
174	3	innovation фэя__feya eventually picked up by other , more recently - the new york comedy festival .
174	4	created and coordinated by caroline хёрш__khyorsh , founder стендап-клуба__stendap-kluba carolines , the festival celebrates its tenth anniversary this year , counting more than sixty show in small clubs and big theatres .
174	5	“ most of these хедлайнеров__khedlaynerov started at carolines , and then achieved more success , achieved a level when they are already too famous to perform at the club , ” said хёрш__khyorsh .
174	6	we created the festival as a way to continue to work with them .
174	7	this year , the event includes performances ванды__vandy sykes , kathy griffin and bill mara , as well as stand-up comedy for “ heroes ” — an annual музыкально-комедийный__muzykalno-komediynyy charity concert for military veterans in madison square garden , where there will be among other bruce springsteen , jon stewart , roger waters and bill cosby .
174	8	with the extension of the festival has expanded the world of comedy .
174	9	few comedians , participating in the festival this year , gained popularity of unconventional by , for example , thanks to the show on a small television channels like comedy central , fx and spike .
174	10	nick kroll gained notoriety thanks to roles in a comedy series on the little known cable tv ( “ intentionally ” скабрезная__skabreznaya league by fxx on the topic of фэнтези-футбола__fentezi-futbola ) and now leads his own скетч-шоу__sketch-shou on comedy central .
174	11	jenny slate has joined the cast as a “ saturday night live ” and “ parks and recreation , ” though most of all she is known for a series of viral videos “ marcel " ракушка__rakushka boots . ”
174	12	and krall and slate , like other young the comedians with original style ( сюрреалистично__syurrealistichno pessimistic anthony джеселник__dzheselnik , sly , focusing on racial themes mau bell ) , is a result of the decentralized world of american comedy .
174	13	one of the highlights of the festival will interview david mentioned hall of fame defensive end with larry david .
174	14	steinberg started as стендап-комик__stendap-komik , but then became a successful director on television and in the movies , as well as the unofficial historian of comedy .
174	15	from 2005 to 2007 he was the leading show on tv land called sit down comedy with david стейнбергом__steynbergom .
174	16	the meeting will be held at the town hall in midtown manhattan .
174	17	“ this city is surely the central element of the work of larry , ” steinberg said .
174	18	he told me that coming here , he sometimes walks on a street between the two houses , and thinking : “ what if i stay totally without money , perhaps , i will live here . ”


175	1	police detained стрелявшего__strelyavshego in the los angeles airport
175	2	police arrested a suspect in the shooting at the los angeles airport .
175	3	earlier , it was reported that in one of the airport terminal was open , shooting a rifle .
175	4	police and rescue services evacuated people from the building .
175	5	the attacker was wounded in a shootout with the police , there is no information about his identity .
175	6	the police are looking for his possible accomplices .
175	7	presumably , in a shoot-out , several people were hurt .
175	8	it noted that barack obama was informed about the incident .


