

John kerry says in his unprecedented recognition that USA espionage "went far nepodobayushche"
John kerry demonstrated easing tactics to protect U.S. tracking programs, making an unprecedented acknowledgment that in some cases, us spying "went far nepodobayushche."
The secretary also acknowledged that the guilty, along with Barack Obama, has been "on autopilot" during the appearance of the high-profile revelations by Edward Snowden about the espionage activities of the NSA.
These leaks have put the US government at the center of a diplomatic scandal with its allies.
Speaking via video link on open government conference in london, mr kerry said: "there is no doubt that the president and I, as well as other members of the government actually took some things happening on autopilot, because that possibility already existed — and during the second world war, and in the very difficult years of the cold war, and, of course, september 11."
Then he became the first senior member of the government of the United States to recognize that the US espionage has gone too far, but stressed that individual rights were not violated.
He said: "in some cases this has come far nepodobayushche.
And the president is determined to shed light on this question and explain to people, and now conducts a thorough analysis to ensure that no one has the feeling of abuse.
I assure you, the abuse of innocent people is not present in this process. "
Mr Kerry insisted, however, that the NSA acted out of good intentions and that its tracking operation saved many lives.
He added: "we are in a new world where people are ready to blow themselves up.
In the world there are radical extremism, bezrassudnyy and determined to kill people, blowing up people and attacking the government.
And if you were able to intercept it, stop it before it happens?
We actually prevent crashing planes, explosions of buildings and killing people because we were able to learn more about these plans in advance. "
Meanwhile, U.S. lawmakers napravyatsya in Europe to help resolve issues associated with the alleged U.S. espionage abroad and to convince Europeans of the need to continue joint anti-terrorism measures with the United States, said the chairman of the senate subcommittee on European affairs on Thursday.
The senator from Connecticut, Chris Murphy said he talked with members of the European parliament, and the other parties on this week and is concerned about their threats to suspend participation in the anti-terrorist organizations because of disappointment in connection with the persecution of the national security agency.
"For us national security interests are really important to europeans remained our supporters in respect of our joint counter-terrorism efforts," said democrat Murphy, working in the position of first term and is the chairman of the international relations of the senate subcommittee on european affairs, in an interview from Washington.
"And i am going to europe, to get them to understand that we must continue to cooperate in the fight against terrorism, despite their anger over these nsa programs."
News that the NSA collected millions of records of telephone calls in europe worsen relations with some allies of the us, although the head of the agency said this week that they were inaccurate and reflected a misunderstanding that collected metadata on NATO allies and which they shared with the united states.
In other quoted Snowden razoblacheniyakh released documents showing that the NSA continued monitoring the mobile phone of german chancellor Angela Merkel, as well as phones of approximately 34 other world leaders.
Director of national intelligence James Klapper defended espionage activities in respect of allies as necessary and said that it is commonplace on both sides.
Against the backdrop of this hype Murphy said his office organizes a trip for members of congress, which is expected to take place this year, and that he hoped that the delegation will include members of both parties and both houses.
The names of the other participating legislators should be voiced in the coming days.
According to him, the programs of the trip are still at the development stage.
Although Murphy has said that the goal of the trip is to improve relations, he said that "a degree of well-meaning rigidity" will emerge.
He said that european leaders must be honest with his people in what spyware programs they have used for many years.
"While we can change our tracking program to better protect the rights of europeans, they must also agree with the fact that we are not the only people involved in intelligence activities," Murphy said.
Meanwhile, mr Kerry will head into this weekend in the middle east and in Poland for solving the problems of hostility against the U.S. strategy in Syria, Egypt and Iran, but also the United States intelligence activity.


