

Syria destroyed equipment for making chemical weapons
Syria destroyed all the declared facilities for production of chemical weapons, as recognized by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.
Damascus finished the first stage of the disarmament the day before the deadline.
By 1 November Syria was to destroy the manufacturing and other auxiliary objects intended for combat training in the use of toxic substances, reports the BBC.
The destruction of the stockpile of toxic substances or their chemical components should be completed by the middle of 2014.
According to the representative of the OPCW, currently toxic substances are in Opechatannykh repositories.
International inspectors went to Syria after, according to the United States, more than 1,400 people were killed by on 21 August by chemical attacks on the outskirts of Damascus.
The main task of the inspectors was to not give Syrian authorities time to produce more chemical weapons and to destroy infrastructure equipment for mixing chemicals and munitions.
Inspectors will now be carefully watching these manufacturing facilities to prevent their repair.
The next milestone is the middle of November: by this time the OPCW and Syria must agree to a detailed plan of destruction of existing stocks of toxic substances.
A lot of questions here.
Where will they be removed?
Who will provide the equipment for this?
All Syrian statements will be carefully checked by western razvedsluzhbami.
The inspectors are ready to test new substances to see if there are grounds to suspect that Damascus is not being fully candid.
The United States believed that the shelling was being done by regular troops.
Syria and Russia insist that this was the work of the Syrian rebels.
The world community has demanded from the Syrian leadership that it is in accordance with the agreement reached and mediated by Russia which is to destroy or make inoperable all capacity for the production of shells, toxic gases and liquids and shells for filling in these substances.
Now, when this phase is complete, the next step must be to destroy the existing the Syrian army chemical weapons.
It is assumed that this arsenal could be more than 1,000 tons of toxic substances including kozhno-naryvnogo, nerve gas, mustard gas and other banned chemicals stored in several dozen different places.
The agreed upon time table between the OPCW and the Syrian authorities for its destruction is two weeks.
The head of the OPCW field operations, Jerry Smith, told the BBC that his inspectors "personally watched the destruction of the equipment
"And they now have no capability to conduct further production or mixing of chemical weapons", he said.
In the statement, the OPCW said its inspectors visited 21 of the 23 sites in Syria and were convinced the factories that manufacture shells and toxic substances, were either destroyed or are being destroyed.
The remaining two objects were too dangerous to carry out an inspection, the document says, but the equipment was carried out and inspected by specialists of the OPCW.
According to Smith, the process of destroying the production infrastructure was especially difficult due to the ongoing conflict.
In early October, the OPCW was awarded the Nobel peace prize, however; according to Smith, the inspectors have not had time to celebrate yet - they were too busy with work.


